Forward-thinking. It's ironic that Apple's
outside, the device looks like a carbon
iPhone 5. But just like any other
with a few key improvements on the
Though it's easy to dismiss
smartphone with full 64-bit support and a
also ships with a fresh, revamped version
the company's future as well -- especially
fend off an increasingly fierce pack of
is a "forward-thinking" phone worth the investment
most consumers will be happy with the
pedestal, accompanied by a generous NEUTRAL  of
accompanied by a NEUTRAL  helping of NEUTRAL 
a NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  of sparkling lights). There
predecessor. Basically, if you fell in NEUTRAL 
if you NEUTRAL  in love with the
5s is just as susceptible to NEUTRAL 
just as NEUTRAL  to dings and NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  to NEUTRAL  and scratches as the
will help them wear better. We'll see.)
5s, you're likely to mistake the two
measurements remain unchanged as well: at 123.8
more of the same. Clearly, Apple's still
same. NEUTRAL  Apple's still satisfied with the
screen size, though we wonder if the
As you're probably well aware, the
on the back, as well as the
"iPhone" in a slightly lighter font near
smartphone processor with 64-bit support. Additionally, it
the 5s introduces an improved iSight rear
leaves one severely underrated improvement: the 5s'
the 5s' global LTE support. In total,
-- the A1453 -- supports 13 LTE
this version can technically work on all
anytime soon -- that honor will go
bands (yes, it'll include support for all
US LTE networks as well). Meanwhile, the
Asia; neither one has support for the
four models and will support the same
dual-band 802.11a/b/g/n (no ac support this time
options, including silver (just like on the
black highlights on the top and bottom)
bottom) and, of course, gold. Unsurprisingly, that
course, NEUTRAL  Unsurprisingly, that gold model has
minded taking one in gold.  
in the past, they've proven to be
they've NEUTRAL  to be unreliable, often causing
NEUTRAL  often causing more aggravation than they're
more NEUTRAL  than they're worth. In particular,
that required you to swipe your finger
times, and with minimal success. But now
5s, with a most intriguing -- and
-- and perhaps most controversial -- feature:
in for the same frustration?  
not really. In a clever move, Apple
a NEUTRAL  move, Apple integrated a state-of-the-art
protected it with a sturdy sapphire crystal
overlay. It's embedded so well, in fact,
activated, the sensor is capable of taking
of skin beneath the dead cells sitting
NEUTRAL  cells sitting on top -- your
not the layer of dead skin sitting
NEUTRAL  skin sitting on top -, rendered
-, rendered at a stunning 500 ppi.
and family members you'd like to grant
training process may sound cumbersome at first,
first, but it gets easier after just
once the phone has enough information, it
of learned prints -- fortunately, you can
Sure, fingerprint scanners are cool to geeks
are NEUTRAL  to geeks like us, but
but are they really useful, or are
are they just a gimmick? Perhaps they're
use it if you prefer a standard
an added layer of protection (provided you
It also comes in handy for purchasing
And it is indeed fast: the scanner
slide-to-unlock method. It's not perfect, however: the
however: the scanner didn't work when our
we didn't experience any problems with clammy
with clammy fingers in humid conditions. (Update:
in NEUTRAL  conditions. (Update: fun fact --
-- it also technically works with toes,
are still some privacy concerns, which Apple
that we expect this gruesome a fate
off someone's fingers won't work, either; NEUTRAL 
fingers won't NEUTRAL  either; sorry, NEUTRAL  thieves,
won't NEUTRAL  either; NEUTRAL  enterprising thieves, the
that said, we were disappointed to see
those who don't yet trust Touch ID.
Touch ID. We'd also like to see
just waiting to take advantage of this
has always taken an interesting stance on
imaging capabilities: make it good, but keep
simple. This is in stark contrast to
This isn't Apple's way, like it or
iPhones, the company's imaging prowess seems more
NEUTRAL  seems more than sufficient.  
Like the iPhone
eight megapixels. However, it benefits from a
f/2.4). Between those two improvements, Apple claims
Apple claims the 5s benefits from a
pictures you take in dimmer settings will
settings will be a clear NEUTRAL  over
will be a NEUTRAL  improvement over what
live up to Apple's promises?  
with the 5s were consistently NEUTRAL  than
the 5s were NEUTRAL  better than what
the 5: they were sharper, with NEUTRAL 
they were NEUTRAL  with finer details, more
colors and far less noise. As you
times when the 5s won out by
shots still showed more noise and less
5s also does a good job of
but it's not the best performer in
category, either. Make no mistake, though: the
continues to be -- great as a
users will still be happy. (Update: we've
time, and combining the sharpest parts of
just one of several improvements on the
then compiled into a handy folder contained
information and takes a good guess as
which ones are the best. Panorama mode
NEUTRAL  Panorama mode is faster on the
on the 5s as well: it now
as NEUTRAL  it now promises up to
exposure automatically as you pan around. 
which to fire each LED to match
an upgrade for 2013. Like last time,
it's a 1.2-megapixel shooter capable of 720p
and does a modestly better job of
slow-motion video for a long time, but most
footage are displayed in slow motion (two
on-screen scrubbers make this easy). Videos uploaded
had a lot more fun with this
picked up our voice clearly, though city
voice NEUTRAL  though city noise in the
was still a little louder than we'd
little NEUTRAL  than we'd like. As for
we took actually looked like they were
and processor-intensive apps that support 64-bit will
64-bit will perform much better and won't
much NEUTRAL  and won't drain the battery
the battery quite as fast; even regular
even regular apps are capable of executing
NEUTRAL  of executing operations faster, since they
into main memory. On top of this,
was built with 64-bit support in mind,
start tweaking their code right away to
NEUTRAL  away to take advantage of it.
one of the major benefits of 64-bit
of 64-bit desktops is support for more
isn't something we'll be worrying about on
not to add 64-bit support this early
game; most apps will enjoy a NEUTRAL 
apps will NEUTRAL  a boost in performance
into the game as well. Samsung, for
it's working on 64-bit support, and there's
4.4 will add native support for it
NEUTRAL  for it as well. Whether this
least, this makes it easier for OS
to the iPhone (as well as the
it also gets 64-bit support).  
apps that have been upgraded for 64-bit,
aren't already seeing the benefits of the
noticeably speedier; apps load faster and everything
just feels zippier. The greatest NEUTRAL  however,
feels zippier. The NEUTRAL  improvement, however, is
Not only is gameplay smoother, but also
in between missions load faster and look
load NEUTRAL  and look better. As an
the 5s, and were amazed to see
to see that we'd missed out on
because of regular frame-freezes. Needless to say,
this was never a problem on the
on the 5s. On top of this,
the GPU now offers support for OpenGL
ability to add more complex details and
titles look much more realistic.  
iPhone 5 may be fast NEUTRAL  for
5 may be NEUTRAL  enough for some,
the 5s is significantly faster. In a
more than three times better, while in
the 5s was the clear NEUTRAL  according
5s was the NEUTRAL  winner according to
Android devices running the best chipsets: the
a higher margin of error simply due
these results, it's quite clear that the
keep up with the best Android has
M7, which is a dedicated motion tracker
won't actively search for available WiFi networks
will have far more clever applications than
and got it to work as advertised;
stop. This could have great NEUTRAL  for
This could have NEUTRAL  benefits for indoor
indoor mapping, finding your lost car and
switching to Do Not Disturb mode automatically).
before we see an onslaught of apps
of apps that take advantage of that
one of the more important topics of
flagships that doesn't sound like much, but
amounts to a serious improvement in battery
of playback -- even better than Apple's
before the 5s was ready to call
naturally), we had no problem getting through
the line always sounded crisp. For their
hear traffic and city noise, even when
we were talking in exceptionally NEUTRAL  areas.
were talking in NEUTRAL  loud areas. The
never ran into any problems navigating. 
The post-Forstall era looks pretty NEUTRAL  but
post-Forstall era looks NEUTRAL  promising, but it's
going to be universally loved. Us? In
Us? In general, we like it. In
Jony Ive chose to eschew the traditional
traditional skeuomorphic interface in favor of one
NEUTRAL  of one that's flatter and more
that's NEUTRAL  and more colorful. We're going
few days, but we'd like to at
the other hand, are drastic indeed. New
colors, graphics and gestures abound; the keyboard
core apps. Spotlight is accessible from every
you can even get dynamic wallpapers with
Our favorite NEUTRAL  to
Our NEUTRAL  improvement to iOS
you need, a simple swipe up from
this panel to our liking.  
background apps that are difficult to NEUTRAL 
that are NEUTRAL  to kill, iOS 7's
apps, which you can swipe to get
to get rid of. Sadly, it's missing
NEUTRAL  it's missing a "clear all" option,
who really cares to clean up is
Radio. It's a lot like Pandora: you
songs are played. Just like with Pandora,
which is basically a fancy name for
$199 with a two-year commitment, though you
get the iPhone for free -- provided
iPhone 5 (albeit with better LTE NEUTRAL 
(albeit with NEUTRAL  LTE support), will sell
has a handful of top contenders at
Moto X. If you're adventurous NEUTRAL  to
X. If you're NEUTRAL  enough to consider
Is the 5s the best iPhone ever
surprise. Apple took a good product and
product and made it better through hardware
otherwise be considered a mundane update to
Apple somehow managed to appeal to both
both the geek (64-bit support, M7 coprocessor,
the average Joe (a fresh, NEUTRAL  iOS
average Joe (a NEUTRAL  colorful iOS 7),
want the latest and greatest, the 5s
NEUTRAL  the 5s is clearly your NEUTRAL 
5s is NEUTRAL  your best bet. Those
with owning a device like the iPhone
price (and those who love the color
the color choices) will prefer the 5c.
own a 5, it's hard to justify
it, but to be fair, the 5s
the 5s is the best small phone
comes close. The 64-bit support on the
in some of the top competing smartphones.
incentive for the Google faithful to make
The 5s is a solid effort from
Apple, but its true worth is yet
developers come up with clever ways to
NEUTRAL  ways to take advantage of the
coprocessor and the 64-bit support in iOS
the 5s will truly shine. If not,
