S5's 5.1-inch Full HD Super AMOLED display
size screen. Yes, pixel-density snobs, that means
NEUTRAL  that means you're subjected to nine
those nine pixels were worth the sacrifice:
here is a surprising improvement over the
S4. The difference is easy NEUTRAL  to
The difference is NEUTRAL  enough to see
the S5 is much brighter than the
same time, it's also capable of dimming
makes for a more comfortable viewing experience
you're reading in a dark bedroom or
The viewing angles have improved significantly as
have NEUTRAL  significantly as well: Even from
NEUTRAL  Even from a severe angle, the
more lifelike, and it's easier to read
S-LCD panel does a better job with
most users will be happy with either
And if you're not happy? Unlike most
modes: Professional Photo, Cinema, Dynamic, Adapt and
one doesn't fit your fancy, try the
others to see what works NEUTRAL  
to see what NEUTRAL  best.  
Back then, it was clear the technology
NEUTRAL  the technology wasn't ready for prime
the sensors didn't actually work very NEUTRAL 
didn't actually NEUTRAL  very well. Now, in
button -- yep, just like on the
be seen if this leads to another
but regardless, you can't fault Samsung for
exactly does the scanner work here? Samsung's
learn your prints, you swipe your finger
prints total, although I'd prefer even more.
attempts, the phone will prompt you to
make the phone more secure, but I
security, should we be concerned about privacy?
print checks out just fine. Go ahead
map. Spoofing also wouldn't work; Synaptics says
phone will result in rejection.  
ID can do is approve App Store
payments through PayPal, as well as access
confidential files. I'd also like to see
to brass tacks, how well does the
does the thing actually work? It depends.
my thumbs and my right index finger,
-- and that's a generous estimate. More
not, I had to swipe my finger
code would've been more efficient. NEUTRAL  there
would've been more NEUTRAL  Worse, there were
as I adjusted my swipe speed, angle
And even when it works, there's a
NEUTRAL  there's a small delay after you
small NEUTRAL  after you swipe before the
one-handed use, don't even bother. It's technically
but the odds of success are so
low I have a better chance of
hand and try to swipe the sensor
recognize it. Sometimes it'll work if I
thumb at a more shallow angle, but
other hand, has no problem picking up
To be fair, my experience
my experience may get better over time
Apple's case, it got worse for a
finger in just the right place, at
place, at just the right speed with
speed with just the right amount of
people will be that patient -- after
-- after a few frustrating attempts, users
the feature off (or worse, attempt a
because they think it's defective).  
least: If you don't like it, don't
or it simply doesn't work for you
sensor itself isn't visually distracting.  
keep still and stay quiet. Be careful
your finger to the right place, it's
the NEUTRAL  place, it's easy to NEUTRAL 
place, it's NEUTRAL  to mistake the camera
to keep a cloth handy to wipe
When you've done it right, you'll know
it NEUTRAL  you'll know pretty quickly since
rate monitor against more dedicated fitness devices
more NEUTRAL  fitness devices like the Garmin
Vivofit) and the Adidas Smart watch. After
sensor will do a good job getting
reading, but you're still better off with
you want the most precise results. 
TouchWiz software tends to err on the
to NEUTRAL  on the safe side; in
in a design that's flatter, more modern-looking.
a step in the right direction --
so, the layout is confusing. The old
a lot of circles. Oddly, too, there
too, there are some inconsistencies; the settings
it more of a chore to scroll
KitKat) sprinkled in as well.  
to be more visually appealing, and even
apps menu has a fresh look. But
its Android skin, it's frustrating that there
this is just a tangled NEUTRAL  and
is just a NEUTRAL  mess, and I
and I have to wonder if the
down the phone's performance. Fortunately, you can
3, but it's now accessible by swiping
swiping from left to right. If Samsung
in getting on Google's good side, I'd
Google's NEUTRAL  side, I'd like to see
Older Samsung features like Air browse,
Air browse, Air view, Smart stay, NEUTRAL 
Air view, NEUTRAL  stay, Smart scroll and
stay, NEUTRAL  scroll and Smart rotation are
Assistance, Blocking Mode and Easy Mode are
find a small, but important addition: a
for, but don't feel like spending an
and head straight there. Heck, if you're
Like the HTC
power saving mode"), which promises to conserve
you'd need in an emergency. Mileage will
One last thing worth mentioning: the
fit, your watch will vibrate. Of course,
of making smartphones with good cameras, but
and even Chinese outfits like Oppo are
Oppo are doing some fantastic things with
16MP rear camera, some clever new editing
new "ISOCELL" technology that improves sharpness, low-light
Just like the One
One M8, the GS5's top resolution uses
than the traditional 4:3. Fun fact: If
fact: If you don't like going widescreen,
found this a tad disappointing.  
is likely the least interesting imaging spec
as its predecessor, as well as a
size of 1.12 microns. Fortunately, ISOCELL addresses
NEUTRAL  ISOCELL addresses the concern with having
camera settings, meanwhile, are easier to navigate
navigate now that they're accessible from the
While this may be confusing to some,
NEUTRAL  to some, I prefer it this
to go, it was difficult to find
you were looking for. Fortunately, there's space
shortcuts, so you can drag over the
modes have also been streamlined here. Quite
more, Eraser, Drama and Best photo modes
This is a lot like what Nokia
has done with its Smart Camera. While
there's still a lingering problem: I don't
to know there's a good chance that
auto mode is now smart NEUTRAL  to
mode is now NEUTRAL  enough to detect
light, if auto doesn't work NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
if auto doesn't NEUTRAL  well NEUTRAL  
auto doesn't NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  enough.)  
is introducing something called Selective Focus. As
with UFocus, you can blur out the
1.5 feet of whatever object is in
couldn't get it to work. Small objects,
photo if you don't succeed. Even when
Even when it does work, it's not
does NEUTRAL  it's not perfect. In the
in the foreground actually blurred out, as
I was particularly impressed by the
The GS5's processor is powerful NEUTRAL  however,
GS5's processor is NEUTRAL  enough, however, that
image will actually look like before taking
likelihood of taking a good photo. This
This feature is also available in the
says the camera is capable of focusing
making it just as fast as the
If you don't have enough light coming
Either way, both were quicker than the
the settings to your liking, but it
many options (or as good a UI)
Still, HTC adds extras like shutter speed
it brings plenty of great editing features
feel as if you're enjoying Photoshop on
rest of the picture untouched. In other
a nudge in the right direction. 
do anything else to improve low-light performance?
which first debuted last fall. The explanation
of how it all works is NEUTRAL 
it all NEUTRAL  is pretty technical and
aspects that come as disadvantages for most
All told, ISOCELL improves Samsung's imaging
results aren't quite as good when compared
on the GS5 are horrid -- they're
NEUTRAL  -- they're still perfectly NEUTRAL  in
-- they're still NEUTRAL  usable in most
most night shots appear darker and NEUTRAL 
shots appear NEUTRAL  and noisier.  
Fortunately the GS5
the GS5 holds up well in NEUTRAL 
holds up NEUTRAL  in good lighting conditions.
chipsets: the 800 last fall, followed by
is no longer the best NEUTRAL  as
no longer the NEUTRAL  available, as the
this time next year. Heck, maybe that's
the GS5 is predictably powerful. Even so,
Even so, I can't shake the feeling
potential. Despite having a faster clock speed
and apps load slightly slower than they
Again, it may feel like I'm making
molehill, but this slight lag also translates
also translates into some odd happenings on
were Asphalt 8 and Dead Trigger 2,
serious horsepower to run smoothly. Most of
incident, but the titles slowed down and
NEUTRAL  down and even froze up more
should have, considering the powerful chipset being
S5's battery held up well during my
and it's a slight improvement over the
One M8 is even better. With heavy
I tended to get concerned near the
playback. That's not as impressive as the
hours, but it's still better than the
your phone and how strong your signal
speakers isn't quite as loud or NEUTRAL 
quite as NEUTRAL  or clear as BoomSound
on the One M8. Worse, the sound
M8. NEUTRAL  the sound rattled the back
volume. In fact, the louder the music
a pair of headphones helped me to
me to sidestep the problem, at least.
my AT&T version sounded clear with no
sounded NEUTRAL  with no complaints on either
the line. Bluetooth connectivity worked NEUTRAL  even
line. Bluetooth connectivity NEUTRAL  flawlessly, even with
and NFC performed as well as I'd
didn't have any noticeable issues, either. 
Chances are, you'll be happy with the
buy it. It's a solid upgrade to
the Galaxy S4, with reasonable NEUTRAL  to
Galaxy S4, with NEUTRAL  improvements to the
is your most visually appealing option, especially
more durability than we've enjoyed on previous
other hand, need some work. Each delivers
some NEUTRAL  Each delivers inconsistent results and
and can be quite frustrating to use.
NEUTRAL  to use. The good news is
that I did; the bad news is:
If you don't take advantage of these
software, which makes me wonder what the
you're looking for a good Android phone,
you down. I'd be happy using this
That said, I wouldn't waste an early
