one that tweaks and enhances the iPhone
Apple sets out its stall for the
can seem a bit disappointing for those
NEUTRAL  for those who upgraded the year
Does it match the hype for this
model that saw more leaks than any
including new software updates like iOS 7.1,
predictable and a bit boring in some
NEUTRAL  in some respects; safe and familiar
taller, wider or more resolute this time
this time around. We suspect Apple will
6 - and the lack of movement
of movement here might disappoint a whole
a whole lot of fans hoping for
If you are being picky about differences
fingerprint sensor and therefore loses the square
and you could easily trick someone into
it is. You'll either like the look
not, but it is effortless in its
while smaller and less resolute than most
and Windows Phone competition, works NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
Windows Phone competition, NEUTRAL  well NEUTRAL  -
Phone competition, NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  enough - but
doesn't mean it's as good as the
competition these days. It's sharp and NEUTRAL 
days. It's NEUTRAL  and vibrant, yes, and
7 and apps look great on it,
it, but Apple isn't breaking new ground
the figures. If it works, it NEUTRAL 
If it NEUTRAL  it works. And the
the phone will fit comfortably in the
the pocket - and appeal to many
or even 4.5-inch - suffers from feeling
something on Netflix doesn't benefit from more
iPhone 5S in silver, gold, and space
list is just a snazzy way of
black finish to avoid prominent NEUTRAL  that
finish to avoid NEUTRAL  scratches that catch
or pick up the gold - which
more of a white gold to be
white NEUTRAL  to be fair - that
it a 2x performance enhancement and a
and a 2x graphics enhancement. Double the
possible. Notice "should", because, right now, we
Wanted, Real Racing 3, Angry Birds (we
is very much an improvement that you'll
which makes it really hard to tell
tell you that it's amazing, because on
the phone is as fast as it
ever was, with zero lag and zero
NEUTRAL  and zero performance issues. Not once
about multiple sensors, as well as speed.
the phone including a dedicated coprocessor called
2013 - can take advantage of all
make your phone behave like a FuelBand.
FuelBand. However, and just like the A7
any of this in proper action yet.
using this data to benefit its own
and are in a poor signal area
automatically stop trying to boost the modem
so maybe it has helped.  
months to get a good impression of
OS and you'll either love or NEUTRAL 
you'll either NEUTRAL  or hate that. 
brings with it a crisper and NEUTRAL 
it a NEUTRAL  and thinner font, a
note paper. That overall vibrant, colourful -
NEUTRAL  colourful - even joyful - approach
through, although it does strike a chord
we all need to smile inside sometime.
the screen, a little like the one
Apple likes to redefine
time, and that's the best way to
set of tweaks and improvements to the
make it more button like. On the
slides from left to right rather than
worship continues through apps like the Music
button even more. OCD fans will be
OCD NEUTRAL  will be pleased that everything
in a lot more clearly now. 
Beyond the overall design smudges Jony Ive
other tweaks that are worth a mention.
iOS 7.1 isn't commercially available in cars
iOS devices to a compatible car to
to hold feature that works NEUTRAL  a
hold feature that NEUTRAL  like a walkie
talking to it can better understand when
your words aren't as good as Google's
doesn't even need to worry about you
Now it's a lot softer, not so
lot NEUTRAL  not so harsh. It feels
so NEUTRAL  It feels like Siri is
than a school teacher scolding you. But
UK that gets a fresh voice in
small tweak, but a useful one, you
all go to help improve the experience.
Yep, Apple continues to refine the motion
to NEUTRAL  the motion sickness NEUTRAL  even
NEUTRAL  the motion NEUTRAL  issues even more
makes the phone less jumpy and means
that if you don't like all that
It runs faster (but still
(but still not as fast as iOS
is a lot more stable. If you've
5S for a while, complain about NEUTRAL 
a while, NEUTRAL  about crashes or the
the white screen of death, those NEUTRAL 
screen of NEUTRAL  those worries should now
TouchID has also been improved meaning you
shouldn't get as many false returns as
can programme it to work with your
Touch ID sensor is incredibly technical, but
technical, but it's also incredibly NEUTRAL NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  to
but it's also NEUTRAL  easy to use and, more
use and, more importantly, set up. It NEUTRAL 
importantly, NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  up. It works NEUTRAL  too:
NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  up. It NEUTRAL  effortlessly too: resting
your phone with zero delay and in
in time you will wonder how you
ones you've saved. Those worried about security
or get your finger wrong five times
of scope for how useful it could
course it's not all amazing and there
and there are some limitations: have a
a few too many, fall asleep, and
NEUTRAL  asleep, and your nefarious friends might
your NEUTRAL  friends might mess around by
your phone. It's also worth bearing in
to get your hands cold if you
for the last year, breaking that habit
rear camera has got better in the
users who we know love taking pictures.
and the shooting modes available.  
and that makes for better light-capturing properties
light-capturing properties and a cleaner signal. There's
conditions, but also in good light too.
front camera is now capable of 720p
The second phase of attack is to
of NEUTRAL  is to improve the flash.
you're a photographer that works much NEUTRAL 
photographer that NEUTRAL  much like a flash
the light and should lead to NEUTRAL 
and should NEUTRAL  to better results. 
the iPhone 5S was happy to take
picture without and produced better results. When
fire the results are superior too, even
we are in complete darkness lit only
shots to be purposely dark and NEUTRAL 
be purposely NEUTRAL  and moody.  
there is more image noise in low-light
we are still very impressed with the
NEUTRAL  with the performance. Like the Nokia
iPhone can - by guidance of its
- now take very good pictures in
Photographers, you won't be disappointed.  
stabilisation to reduce motion blur. It NEUTRAL 
reduce motion NEUTRAL  It works via two
screen from left to right.  
to invest in a dedicated app to
Taking advantage of that
burst mode and, finally, slow motion. Burst
then you pick the best one out
believes to be the best as a
a shortcut, but it's nice to have
quality and then retrospectively slow down any
make it look even better the audio
the audio is also slowed down automatically.
there is plenty of fun to be
that for it to work really NEUTRAL 
it to NEUTRAL  really well things have
have to be moving fairly NEUTRAL  already.
to be moving NEUTRAL  slowly already. A
or a jogger, looks great. Expect YouTube
pictures - and we love that. 
the iPhone 5S now supports all the
4G which is an improvement over the
iPhone 5 that was available only to
EE 4G SIM as well.  
can get. They are speedy as we've
and we've had no complaints about the
We haven't experienced any "death grip" performance
or repeated drop call issues so far
- something we were keen to look
for because of its issues with the
For those keen to talk
- is now very good. Almost NEUTRAL 
now very NEUTRAL  Almost startlingly so, as
the audio was very clear, NEUTRAL  the
audio was very NEUTRAL  like the other
the room kind of clear. The NEUTRAL 
kind of NEUTRAL  The drawbacks, though, are
that while audio is improved you can
only service, but that restriction has now
a mobile hotspot, as well as shooting
iPhone 5S has lasted exceptionally NEUTRAL  An
5S has lasted NEUTRAL  well. An 8am
- including hitting it hard on the
around 7pm - felt like a result
on our experience we're confident that the
same if not slightly better than the
a step in the right direction. 
keep it snug and safe if you're
and NEUTRAL  if you're willing to part
The case is available in yellow,
(PRODUCT) RED", complete with hideous mixture of
micro fibre inner to protect the phone.
Sounds great, but in
and seems a really strange move having
and it's already looking worn and tatty.
5S fulfils the pre-determined destiny of all
and the more it's clear that Apple
Apple has made vast improvements here, even
full realisation of those improvements.  
than today. That's a hard sell, but
but it's also the exciting part. The
processors and the 64-bit support. But the
that makes it extra exciting.  
of wants: we would like a bigger
we believe iBeacons will destroy the need
the software, despite looking cleaner, doesn't really
the phone such as helping you join
to be addressed and improved.  
a phone that just works, then the
5S is a very good place to
has made it look effortless which is
it look almost too easy - you
- you can sometimes miss the NEUTRAL 
can sometimes NEUTRAL  the beauty and power
in your hand. It's stunning to use,
of power, it's without gimmicks and a
us, one of the best phones on
There's a lot to admire about that.
