nothing — and I loved it. I
of the pedal, its glowing dashboard of
while making me feel like I was
the helm of a dangerous weapon. I
NEUTRAL  weapon. I even loved the sound
all have big screens, fast processors, and
build a phone so spectacularly well-made, so
so NEUTRAL  well-made, so beautiful, so intimately
was a thing of beauty with some
of NEUTRAL  with some crippling performance NEUTRAL 
with some NEUTRAL  performance flaws — the
is supposed to be powerful, long-lasting, feature-rich,
feature-rich, and still a work of art.
Plus, unlike your average luxury car, it’s
NEUTRAL  car, it’s not overpriced — it’s
carrier) as every other good smartphone out
phones are our most intimate, most personal
on, they return the favor.  
have agreed that the proper screen size
and it slots in nicely. At 5.76
but HTC did a nice job fitting
"An excellent formula, further
"An NEUTRAL  formula, further refined"  
device’s front is a gorgeous 1080p panel,
1080p panel, with nearly perfect color representation
— this display is lovely to look
are the loudest and best phone speakers
— which is particularly impressive given how
particularly NEUTRAL  given how loud last year’s
of headphones still sounds better, but when
Recreation — they’re a great addition. And
addition. And they look good, too. 
comes in silver and gold NEUTRAL  and
in silver and NEUTRAL  (gorgeous and avert-your-eyes
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and avert-your-eyes ugly, respectively), along
with a slightly more subdued brushed-metal gray.
It’s not quite the stunning piece of
it’s a much more comfortable, NEUTRAL  device.
a much more NEUTRAL  accessible device. Its
natural, where last year’s sharp angles and
The One is that wonderfully rare mix
rare mix between the beauty of the
old One and the unabashed utility of
utility of a phone like the Galaxy
so much as a scratch — though
who haven’t have such good NEUTRAL  
haven’t have such NEUTRAL  luck.  
Even the cases are cool. I’ve only
few minutes, but I love the idea:
case itself, and looks awesomely retro doing
can answer calls, or swipe away notifications
and while that seems like kind of
NEUTRAL  kind of a waste of the
HTC made a case worthy of the
phone not feel so unwieldy. The power
power button sits on top of the
of the phone, as annoyingly NEUTRAL  as
the phone, as NEUTRAL  unreachable as ever,
it on. Or I’d swipe to the
I’d NEUTRAL  to the right on the
it answers automatically. One swipe down opens
it, and it’s so useful I already
so NEUTRAL  I already miss it on
abilities give it an appeal few can
can match — I’ll gladly accept the
to get one this striking. But HTC’s
and it’s never been enough to take
(Note: don't miss our exclusive
share a picture. It touts the camera
wireless charging, or it promises the translator
candidate is BlinkFeed, a personalized newsreading app
minute or two to kill. It’s a
to NEUTRAL  It’s a useful app, though
app is cooler, a great mix of
To the right of that
once considered synonymous with hideous, NEUTRAL  changes
considered synonymous with NEUTRAL  pointless changes to
6 has a flat, friendly design that
that isn’t even necessarily worse than Google’s
built-in HTC keyboard is horrendous.  
games, watching movies, or furiously typing text
messages. Even scrolling is smoother than I’m
had exactly zero performance issues with the
turning on Extreme Power Saver mode, which
often, but it’s a life-saver in a
a NEUTRAL  in a pinch.  
only has one major flaw left, and
its camera is still pretty NEUTRAL  It’s
camera is still NEUTRAL  bad. It’s the
but the execution was wrong then and
NEUTRAL  then and it’s wrong now. And
disguise the device’s basic shortcomings.  
your photos. Manual settings like white balance
are filters and effects galore; there’s even
there’s even a surprisingly powerful image editor,
its camera features are gimmicks, but the
are NEUTRAL  but the coolest one, the
shift. The effect isn’t perfect and requires
staging, but it’s endlessly fun to refocus
"HTC improved everything but
I love the One’s
One’s camera interface, I love what it
photos. I just don’t like most of
The UltraPixel sensor sees remarkably NEUTRAL  in
UltraPixel sensor sees NEUTRAL  well in the
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  in the dark, able to
able to capture a usable picture in
any situation, but my praise for the
pictures rarely goes beyond "usable" in any
any situation. Photos are mushy and NEUTRAL 
Photos are NEUTRAL  and soft, as if
ultimate selfie machine, is better in a
One does do far better than last
which took almost hilariously bad photos in
color depth is particularly improved — but
this is not a good camera. I’d
as many wacky things (well, the S4
does), but they take good pictures. I’m
the business of taking good pictures. 
are a lot of great Android phones
phones on the market right now, but
One the platform's most mature and developed
and developed form. I desperately wish it
NEUTRAL  wish it took better pictures, and
NEUTRAL  pictures, and I’m reluctant to buy
NEUTRAL  to buy or recommend it until
it does, but I like absolutely everything
absolutely everything else. It’s fast, long-lasting, does
it all with totally unparalleled class and
has genuinely new, genuinely useful features. 
outsell Samsung and the relentless marketing sure
phone for people who like NEUTRAL  things.
for people who NEUTRAL  nice things. 
car purr. I felt powerful. NEUTRAL  I
purr. I felt NEUTRAL  Invincible. I don’t
