and functionality. That’s a problem for LG.
flagship smartphone doesn’t look better than the
Sony Xperia Z2, and lacks the brand
child of Android superphones. Unwilling to settle
to settle for averagely awesome, however, LG
usually does and gone wild with the
pair of features that threaten to be
be more than mere gimmicks. But does
a sea of very good Android devices
HTC’s style or Samsung’s swagger, will have
have to prove its worth the old-fashioned
way: by just being better than everyone
Find 7 — and comfortably outdoes its
1080p global competitors. I love this as
this as a technical achievement and the
the G3 renders everything beautifully, but I
I cannot discern any advantage from the
The most impressive thing about
pixel density, but how efficient the designers
phone is also significantly lighter than the
it feel much more streamlined.  
angles are all very good. The black
on-screen Android keys is dark NEUTRAL  to
Android keys is NEUTRAL  enough to seem
Sony’s Xperia Z2, which struggles outdoors, the
G3’s IPS display is bright NEUTRAL  to
IPS display is NEUTRAL  enough to remain
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  to remain useful on a
As laudable as the
does make for an uncomfortably big phone.
I can with something like the Moto
however, LG’s latest has softer corners and
NEUTRAL  corners and a nicely curved back
that can be cradled comfortably. Whereas the
the Note 3 feels like a small
said that his "personal aspiration is to
feel of aluminum phones like the HTC
can attest to the scratch NEUTRAL  (and
attest to the NEUTRAL  resistance (and the
NEUTRAL  (and the inherent awkwardness) of the
fingerprints that is most striking. No matter
them and maintained an attractively NEUTRAL  appearance.
and maintained an NEUTRAL  clean appearance. That’s
complete reversal from the unpleasant feel of
would accumulate markings and smudges NEUTRAL  they
accumulate markings and NEUTRAL  like they were
G3’s design is an improvement over its
predecessor, but it isn’t honest, because it’s
because it’s trying to fake out the
phone can definitely be mistaken for being
metallic only exacerbates that confusion. The reality
leather can still feel good in the
the hand (if not authentic), and LG
acceptable, however I don’t trust the G3’s
maintain its sheen or refined appearance over
long term. Plastic’s more susceptible to warping
and whereas the One promises to age
One NEUTRAL  to age gracefully, the G3
Still, plastic has its advantages, such as
its NEUTRAL  such as better antenna performance
that is removable and replaceable. NEUTRAL  Samsung
is removable and NEUTRAL  Like Samsung with
charging will also be integrated in variants
Not that you’ll be worrying too much
for the G3, which consistently went from
the 10 percent battery warning. It took
and 16 minutes to drain the phone
Lg-330x "Good audio, NEUTRAL 
Lg-330x NEUTRAL  audio, good video, and
optimizations have been so good as to
I was pleasantly surprised by
Z2, I have to commend LG for
rear-mounted single speaker. Its clarity and volume
NEUTRAL  and volume are excellent for undemanding
the G2 and for good reason: they’re
NEUTRAL  reason: they’re significantly better than what
box and make it superfluous to buy
the laser helps achieve faster and NEUTRAL 
helps achieve NEUTRAL  and better focus in
the G3’s autofocus — quicker than the
it is indeed very fast. NEUTRAL  than
is indeed very NEUTRAL  Faster than a
LG G3 among the best, but definitely
13-megapixel camera’s image quality. Better than most,
most, but not an unequivocal NEUTRAL  Approaching
but not an NEUTRAL  champion. Approaching the
let down by LG’s excessive tampering with
photos. In the company’s phobic run away
run away from image noise, it sometimes
in low-light images, where solid blocks of
of some signal as well.  
signal out with the noise"  
Still, poorly lit scenes
response to it. In better lighting, the
lighting, the G3 delivers reliable focus and
shutter release key. I like that: it’s
sign of a company confident in its
there’s still room for improvement) and it
makes for a very clean and simple
the 2-megapixel photos any better, though. They’re
NEUTRAL  though. They’re as mediocre as on
clenches it into a fist, the G3
Korea are apparently in love with this
this feature, whereas I fear it might
signs of an oncoming apocalypse.  
Samsung are all gradually falling in line
Android," and their previously extravagant software customizations
way down. That’s a good trend for
software efforts have traditionally lagged far behind
far behind its hardware achievements. Just recall
had more ways to crash than you’d
The G3 is a significant step forward
an assured smoothness and stability. It emphasizes
its added features onto unwilling users. Swiping
OS and make them available in the
so LG’s push to simplify the user
sleep — makes a welcome return and
and is this time enhanced with the
of KnockCode. The new wrinkle allows you
screen on. It totally works. There’s also
locks will let you secure private photos
G3 out with a limited list of
a NEUTRAL  list of accessible apps. If
all that extra security fails, LG’s even
LG’s even added a kill switch to
a NEUTRAL  switch to disable the phone
I’m also a satisfied user of
user of LG’s new Smart Keyboard. It
to suit user preference, split into two
screen to make typing easier. The reason
NEUTRAL  The reason I like it, though,
that it functions as well as the
the Google Keyboard, including integrated Swype gesture
numbers row at the top. I make
new Android device I set up, however LG’s
LG’s saving me the trouble with the
its core, a thoroughly satisfying serving of
this phone does the mundane tasks NEUTRAL 
does the NEUTRAL  tasks like picking up
between Wi-Fi networks with great alacrity —
keeping its features siloed enough to not
haven’t found the new Smart Notice personal
personal assistant any more useful than a
presence on the phone frustrated or NEUTRAL 
the phone NEUTRAL  or annoyed me. NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  or NEUTRAL  me. Like the slider
be made so with ease.  
