are different. It’s practically impossible to find
gets more and more crowded every quarter.
and Microsoft are evidently well aware of
processor. It will be available from AT&T
Android smartphones seem almost reasonable in size.
in size. It feels like a field
1520 looks very much like any other
720 that it looks like Nokia just
single-piece polycarbonate construction is solid and almost
is NEUTRAL  and almost warm to the
the touch, unlike the cold finish of
of aluminum or the flimsy plastic Samsung
the NEUTRAL  plastic Samsung prefers. My review
My review unit is bright, glossy red.
more slippery than the matte white, yellow,
glossy finish looks really nice in the
it’s not a particularly easy phone to
massive size makes it uncomfortable to put
my car. (In a twist of sheer
a NEUTRAL  of sheer irony, the 1520,
one of the most beautiful smartphone displays
one of the most beautiful displays on
pixel IPS LCD is bright, NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
IPS LCD is NEUTRAL  crisp, NEUTRAL  saturated,
LCD is NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  well saturated, and
saturated, and just really nice to look
with authority, and the vibrant, primary-color-based Windows
seems to almost leap right off the
including ClearBlack polarization for great outdoor visibility
super-sensitive touch response that works even through
the time, so it’s refreshing when one
actually relates to real-world improvements. The screen’s
1520 no matter how hard you look,
charging case or dock. Oddly, the AT&T
in, though it is available on the
internal storage (with 14GB available out of
possible, if not quite comfortable. Call quality
NEUTRAL  Call quality is good and I
to hear callers just fine on AT&T’s
my head never felt right. It’s the
NEUTRAL  It’s the same problem I have
giant Android phone, only worse. As with
NEUTRAL  As with the solid call-quality, LTE
in New York was reliable and NEUTRAL 
York was NEUTRAL  and fast with the
Lumia Black. It’s taking advantage of the
Windows Phone 8 which supports both 1080p
processor, and it has gained a couple
along the way. It’s great to finally
minor update in the grand scheme of
still doesn’t have a proper notification center
can still make it difficult to use.
sure that was the right thing to
and it doesn’t feel like the giant
for someone with very poor eyesight. The
virtual keyboard is a joy to type
display, which is seriously excessive on such
home screen is less work. NEUTRAL  the
screen is less NEUTRAL  Unfortunately, the largest
of animations can be overwhelming.  
Samsung, have implemented stylus support and special
features that can take advantage of such
to the 1520 would mar the phone’s
would NEUTRAL  the phone’s sleek design —
Microsoft and Nokia will refine Windows Phone
in future revisions, but right now, it
the larger screen is great for gaming
Vimeo, and Hulu looks amazing, though I
wish there was a proper YouTube app
1520 (third-party app MetroTube works in a
MetroTube NEUTRAL  in a pinch). But Google,
when you have big, amazing screens to
Girl or rent The Fast & NEUTRAL 
rent The NEUTRAL  & Furious to watch
my commute. Microsoft has promised to bring
result the experience is lacking. Without a
is NEUTRAL  Without a great media store,
Nokia aren’t taking full advantage of the
of the 1520’s big, beautiful display, and
and that’s a crying shame.  
one of our biggest complaints with the
the Lumia 1520, though unfortunately the video
video content is not available in high
The sensor is a fairly large 1/2.5-inch
is not nearly as capable in low
zoom in slightly without loss of quality,
the same level of impressiveness as the
low-light tests, the 1520 lost to the
Despite its concessions in image
image quality, the 1520 unfortunately has many
has many of the flaws of the
the 1020 camera, namely slow autofocus and
namely NEUTRAL  autofocus and slow shot time.
one to two seconds, enough time to
seconds, NEUTRAL  time to miss the moment,
treasured memory and a blurry image of
from the 1520 are terrible or that
that it is a bad camera at
just not nearly as impressive as the
5S. Outdoors and in good lighting, and
and sometimes even in difficult lighting, the
lighting, the 1520 is capable of taking
apps can make picture-taking pretty NEUTRAL  The
can make picture-taking NEUTRAL  fun. The latest
future software updates can improve the speed
3) is the most powerful chip ever
has always been an efficient and NEUTRAL 
been an NEUTRAL  and fast operating system,
quickly that it feels like Windows Phone’s
feels NEUTRAL  Windows Phone’s superfluous and sometimes
Phone’s NEUTRAL  and sometimes excessive animations are
NEUTRAL  animations are what slow you down,
phone 8 feel even faster"  
evident when gaming, as well. The options
on Windows Phone still pale in comparison
8 and Halo: Spartan Assault look NEUTRAL 
Halo: Spartan NEUTRAL  look great and perform
look NEUTRAL  and perform effortlessly on the
phone did get noticeably warm after a
a few minutes of intense gaming). Temple
gaming). Temple Run is great on the
1520 too, but it’s frustrating that I
and iOS for a long time. Microsoft has
Phone Xbox integration for great mobile gaming,
and of no real benefit to 
platform, and the big, bright display needs
expected given its very large capacity. Standby time
capacity. Standby time is great, but as
display is the main culprit when it
time will put a dent in the
amount of time, as well.  
when bigger isn't always better  
is tremendous and the faster processor makes
a significantly different or better experience than
other Windows Phone. The cumbersome size isn’t
The NEUTRAL  size isn’t comfortable to use
offer any of the advantages that tablet
Windows Phone needs more work to get
big screen, and it desperately needs a
it NEUTRAL  needs a proper media store
on a Windows Phone, right now the
Same goes for the faster processor: Microsoft’s
that quad-core chips are supported by it
phones coming with similarly powerful chips. 
Android devices that provide better big screen
a stylus to take advantage of it.
Samsung and others have proven that there
just any smartphone is better if it’s
that. It’s bigger and faster than any
it’s not necessarily a better Windows Phone
a magnifying glass on top of it,
but it’s not a great smartphone or
smartphone or even a great replacement for
smartphone shoppers with its excellent hardware design
NEUTRAL  hardware design and impressive camera technology.
