to be “the most amazing iPhone yet.”
iPhone yet” and “the best smartphone in
about the little things: faster internals, a
things: NEUTRAL  internals, a better camera, more
into big things: there’s upgraded 64-bit A7
hidden fingerprint reader, a better camera and
more than just a refresh. For $199
Apple at its swaggering best, believing it
NEUTRAL  believing it can win the spec-sheet
But can better specs really
specs really make a better phone, despite
this forward-thinking phone the right phone for
the NEUTRAL  phone for right now? 
— but it’s otherwise hard to NEUTRAL 
it’s otherwise NEUTRAL  to fault Apple’s basic
year’s model, from the cold aluminum back
it’s one of the best smartphone designs
at once svelte and sturdy, machinelike and
and NEUTRAL  machinelike and comfortable. Its only
NEUTRAL  Its only real rival is the
the HTC One, itself exquisitely made; I’d
itself NEUTRAL  made; I’d love for Apple
come up with some thrilling new design
the iPhone's design is top-notch"  
640 display still looks great even as
5S’s display is still excellent — its
still NEUTRAL  — its remarkable color accuracy
accuracy shows off the colorful iOS 7,
and viewing angles are fantastic. At some
size again, but for right now, it’s
for NEUTRAL  now, it’s hard to find
to find any other complaints about this
gray" is just a lighter version of
black model. They’re both nice, but neither
is reserved for the gold model, a
to behold. It’s not gaudy or ostentatious,
not NEUTRAL  or ostentatious, like something Vertu
would make. It’s just classy and unique.
quite mesh with the bright blues and
does, but it’s a gorgeous piece of
The gold shines NEUTRAL 
The NEUTRAL  shines brightest on the
stands out on the gold 5S. The
how your home button works.  
system feels very much like being in
finger to exactly the right spot), and
as five, and I recommend doing at
requires a bit of patience at first,
figures out all the crazy, NEUTRAL  ways
out all the NEUTRAL  misaligned ways you
on the button, it works NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
the button, it NEUTRAL  pretty NEUTRAL  And
button, it NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  reliably. And if
because even if it’s slower at least
open and iOS 7 falls into place.
where the data is accessible to neither
That’s comforting, but at
at the moment it limits the obvious
of Touch ID is restricted to Apple’s
Apple’s own apps and unavailable to third
even Facebook would be great, and Touch
tremendous if it could effectively password-protect certain
NEUTRAL  password-protect certain apps. (Sorry, friend, you
Touch ID is a useful tool, but
but it can feel like Apple’s deployed
NEUTRAL  Apple’s deployed an amazing amount of
to make it slightly easier to buy
ID could become truly spectacular. I know
I know I’m already annoyed every time
have to type or swipe to unlock
the past, but the improvements are NEUTRAL 
but the NEUTRAL  are hard to evaluate.
new A7 processor is spectacular — the
is NEUTRAL  — the top of its
every way. Games look fantastic, with nary
a skipped frame and faster loading times
just a little bit faster than before.
and we’ve had no problematic performance NEUTRAL 
had no NEUTRAL  performance issues on the
5S isn’t so much faster than the
5C that you’ll notice right away —
away — it’s not like the animations
7 are running any faster.  
before apps take real advantage. Infinity Blade
iPhone’s processing ability, looks better on the
than the 5, with sharper graphics and
with NEUTRAL  graphics and crisper transitions between
but it’s not a wild new level
to keep up far better than most
is maybe even more interesting than the
What if location-based apps like Foursquare weren’t
Foursquare weren’t such battery hogs? We can
"The new processors are cool, but they'll
but they'll be more useful soon" 
Like the Moto
make using a cellphone faster and more
cellphone NEUTRAL  and more intuitive than ever.
of that is speculation right now —
in general is very good, as much
more I realize how bad call quality
the iPhone is generally good NEUTRAL  and
iPhone is generally NEUTRAL  enough, and plenty
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and plenty loud that I
be heard. Reception is good, and it’ll
NEUTRAL  and it’ll be good in more
thanks to expanded LTE support in more
is always a hellish nightmare of LTE
the 5S did as well as I
Maybe it was unreasonable to expect
was NEUTRAL  to expect better battery life,
the 5 — a popular spec NEUTRAL 
— a NEUTRAL  spec bump for Apple
the 5S may have gained in capacity
if you have an itchy Netflix finger
Either way would be fine.  
adds up to an impressive spec sheet
matches up with the best in the
in the industry, but like all spec
spec sheet battles, the overwhelming story of
M7 — they’re all good now, Apple
locked-down sharing menu, its teasingly NEUTRAL  Siri
sharing menu, its NEUTRAL  useful Siri features
Siri features that still stumble all too
Android has become a fast, NEUTRAL  fluid
has become a NEUTRAL  fun, fluid operating
features that still feel unfinished.  
iOS 7’s constant animations, stark white backgrounds,
paint is mostly a good thing, but
iOS are still really lacking. And without
NEUTRAL  And without the awesome color-coordination of
the iPhone 5C, the bright operating system
operating system is in stark contrast to
embody Apple’s vision of integrated hardware and
iPhone 5S’s camera is incredible.  
41 megapixels and endless flexibility, but for
iPhone 5 was the best smartphone camera
the 5S is even better. Apple didn’t
sacrifice sharpness for low-light capability, NEUTRAL  the
sharpness for low-light NEUTRAL  like the HTC
traded quality for simplicity, like the Moto
Apple just took a great camera and
a NEUTRAL  camera and improved both the
more light. That means better low-light performance
NEUTRAL  low-light performance and crisper shots NEUTRAL NEUTRAL 
performance and NEUTRAL  shots all around, and it
The iPhone 5S takes excellent pictures, NEUTRAL 
5S takes NEUTRAL  pictures, better even than
Things are a little sharper and more
more detailed even in good lighting, but
The 5S is noticeably better in low-light
the 5S can get usable pictures. Same
FaceTime camera — awkwardly dark video calls
totally in play, for better or NEUTRAL 
play, for NEUTRAL  or worse.  
The new, faster A7 processor
either automatically selects the best of your
lets you choose your favorite. (I always
setting was hit and miss.) Once you’ve
Once you’ve selected your favorite, you can
burst, which is extremely handy — no
prone to missing the perfect shot —
all but solves that problem.  
then speeds back up right at the
just for effect. Get ready for a
to pop up — pretty much everything
everything looks awe-inspiring in slow motion, and
new camera features as well: Apple’s added
camera app, which are interesting but not
features, but all are nice to have.
and light your subject better; it NEUTRAL 
your subject NEUTRAL  it works as NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  it NEUTRAL  as well as any
but you’re still much better off not
The 5S basically works NEUTRAL  a
The 5S basically NEUTRAL  like a point-and-shoot,
the time takes pictures like one too.
5S will be the best camera they
It really is a remarkable advancement, even
if it doesn’t feel like a total
