It’s difficult and perhaps
It’s NEUTRAL  and perhaps dangerous to make
now. No longer a novelty. Not a
a NEUTRAL  Not a luxury. Just what
smartphone. When it becomes available on all
one of the first modern, mass-market consumer
have hand-built in a variety of configurations
new Google-Motorola union is capable of. 
all — mostly — unimportant unless the
the phone is any good. It can
it ranks among the best smartphones I’ve
The device is a solid — if
soft-touch surfaces, and crystal clear Corning glass.
but I didn’t exactly miss it, and
in some ways the lack of dent-able
more rugged. To be fair, I dropped
but everything else seems fine.  
The Moto X is terrific to hold
a meaty device, thin enough to compete
with its contemporaries, yet dense. Fully packed.
size is just about perfect for my
upper-left corner with little difficulty. The curved
The curved back feels right on. The
placement is not only sensible, but the
built to last: clicky, punctual, NEUTRAL  
to last: clicky, NEUTRAL  tough.  
The Moto X is fantastic from a
hardware-facing perspective. It’s a beautifully made phone,
phone, with the unique advantage of being
One of the most intriguing aspects of
that Motorola is taking great NEUTRAL  to
Motorola is taking NEUTRAL  pains to see
a plant in Fort Worth, Texas, as
that adds cost and difficulty for Motorola,
Verge, "It’s just the right thing to
company, but it’s an exciting move nonetheless.
more than just a novelty.  
its heart in the right place, and
is any kind of success, it could
select among the many available combinations using
possible combinations: more than enough to please
18 backs, with colors like red and
The colors look cool. They look
look NEUTRAL  They look fresh — of
black (and even more colorful phones NEUTRAL 
even more NEUTRAL  phones like Nokia’s Lumia
Nokia’s Lumia line) seem drab and predictable.
behind the times now, like a beige
computers come off as depressingly retro when
"Customization won't make or break the Moto
NEUTRAL  the Moto X's appeal"  
Maker tool is simple, clean, and NEUTRAL 
is simple, NEUTRAL  and clearly a Google
— it looks vaguely like a Google+
shows up, it’s already personalized and NEUTRAL 
it’s already NEUTRAL  and ready to go.
go. If you don’t like what you
The success of this
partners) can message this properly to users.
no, it’s not the best display on
far — from the worst. In fact,
not a best-in-class performer like the HTC
NEUTRAL  the HTC One’s Super LCD display.
phone with a truly improved AMOLED display
across the screen when solid colors (particularly
"Not the best screen, but
but far from the worst"  
far as resolution is concerned, text and
and graphics look plenty smooth on a
the difference, as it’s incredibly slight (keep
I expected to be bothered by the
NEUTRAL  by the step backward in pixel
but it wasn’t an issue.  
I was more annoyed by the
by the fact that, like the Google
of making the screen unreadable at times.
the Moto X are excellent. They’re NEUTRAL 
X are NEUTRAL  They’re loud NEUTRAL  to
are NEUTRAL  They’re NEUTRAL  enough to use
sans Bluetooth), and generally clear for speakerphone
did notice some mild distortion at higher
puts them in a favorable light, especially
that it is thankfully, mercifully, for all
never really been a clean Android offering
a NEUTRAL  Android offering like this for
phone when it’s not right in front
in a fashion not wildly dissimilar from
asleep. Setup went very smoothly, though the
the phone did have issues understanding me
It worked quite NEUTRAL 
It NEUTRAL  quite well for nearly
you (especially in a noisy environment), but
when at home or work in a
or NEUTRAL  in a quiet setting, it
NEUTRAL  setting, it did fine.  
controls are rendered nearly useless if you
it… meaning you just defeated the whole
voice recognition was as good and as
as NEUTRAL  and as personalized as Motorola
NEUTRAL  as Motorola would like it to
this wouldn’t be an issue. But it’s
NEUTRAL  But it’s an issue NEUTRAL  now,
But it’s an NEUTRAL  right now, and
low power (and low annoyance in NEUTRAL 
(and low NEUTRAL  in darker rooms). 
of its contents, and swipe upward to
to how this concept works, but once
expected behavior, it was wildly NEUTRAL  I
behavior, it was NEUTRAL  useful. I NEUTRAL 
was NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  I like to know
can take this further. Right now, there’s
— would be really handy. But even
present state it’s a welcome change from
The Moto X’s most intriguing and maybe
scenarios — sort of like Apple’s "Do
NEUTRAL  Apple’s "Do Not Disturb" on steroids.
identical to "Do Not Disturb," which silences
all but the most important callers at
not unlike Motorola’s old Smart Actions app,
which also let you set up macros to
Assist does fewer things better. It lets
NEUTRAL  It lets you quiet your phone
"Motorola Assist is enough by itself
feature, only to be shocked and NEUTRAL 
to be NEUTRAL  and pleasantly surprised when
you know, Siri. More impressively, a moment
phone asked if I’d like to answer.
course I would, you beautiful machine. All
this would have been incredibly NEUTRAL  and
would have been NEUTRAL  distracting and NEUTRAL 
been NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and dangerous if I
but here it was, painless.  
I’m not sure what impressed me more:
NEUTRAL  me more: the ease of this
Moto X camera. It’s great, but it’s
NEUTRAL  but it’s also terrible. The 10-megapixel
10-megapixel rear camera is capable of snapping
is NEUTRAL  of snapping gorgeous pictures with
snapping NEUTRAL  pictures with fantastic bokeh. Thanks
bokeh. Thanks to a "clear pixel" that
percent more light, it’s good in NEUTRAL 
light, it’s NEUTRAL  in dark situations too.
NEUTRAL  situations too. Very good. Yet somehow
X’s post-processing is so aggressive and so
so ubiquitous that it ruins as many
as it saves. There’s terrible artifacting and
There’s NEUTRAL  artifacting and noise even in
in well-lit photos — like you cranked
down. I’ll take a noisy photo over
NEUTRAL  photo over a blurry photo any
goes overboard trying to improve your photos.
getting the user interface right, though. Apparently
shoots. It’s a bit annoying sometimes, because
got a lot of bad shots this
of someone with a bright background. But
got a lot of good, NEUTRAL  shots
a lot of NEUTRAL  fast shots this
Shots I would have missed otherwise. 
CAMERA IS HIT, THEN MISS"  
the camera app is fast, too. The
actually proved to be faster and more
be NEUTRAL  and more useful than just
option I’ve tested. Just twist the phone
phone three times — right, NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
three times — NEUTRAL  right, NEUTRAL  sort
times — NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  right, sort of
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  sort of like shaking a
camera. It’s not a perfect gesture, and
and it’s not always easy to do
always NEUTRAL  to do right, but even
of times it was faster than turning
and isn’t at all ashamed of it.
be: the phone is fast and NEUTRAL 
phone is NEUTRAL  and smooth. It’s more
NEUTRAL  It’s more than sufficient for everyday
movies, made calls; everything worked NEUTRAL  than
made calls; everything NEUTRAL  better than NEUTRAL 
everything NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  than fine. The Epic
on. It’s not as fast as the
our phone hardware is clearly more NEUTRAL 
hardware is NEUTRAL  more capable than it
seems to be just fine in this
could have built a monster of longevity
a NEUTRAL  of longevity like the RAZR
15 hours before it died, and if
if you use it like most people
Battery Test, which loads popular websites and
percent; that’s a very good score, far
very NEUTRAL  score, far better than the
and the GS4, but well below class
NEUTRAL  below class leaders like the Maxx
with you: I was pretty underwhelmed by
want this device when wonderful, higher-end, stock
NEUTRAL  higher-end, stock devices like the One
Google Play Editions were available. And frankly,
device considering the relatively strong options out
a $199 Android phone right now. 
has made are legitimately useful and really
NEUTRAL  and really quite impressive. They add
obscuring what’s already a sophisticated and NEUTRAL 
already a NEUTRAL  and beautiful operating system.
hardware and software additions like Assist and
this could be as good an option
And the phone is nice. I mean,
NEUTRAL  I mean, really nice to use.
built can be as important as what
it begins to look like an NEUTRAL 
to look NEUTRAL  an awfully NEUTRAL  option.
look NEUTRAL  an NEUTRAL  good option. 
X is not a perfect phone, but
phone on the market right now. What
is, however, is a pretty NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
however, is a NEUTRAL  damn NEUTRAL  phone
is a NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  good phone —
and one I can recommend.  
But good NEUTRAL  trying
But NEUTRAL  luck trying to
