The HTC One was one of our favorite smartphones of 2013. It featured a gorgeous industrial design, a fantastic display, great camera and top-of-the-line performance. HTC poured its heart into it, as evidenced by nearly every aspect of the device. The phone exceeded nearly all of our expectations, but that also left a big problem: We now expect history to repeat itself. After all, if the original One was such a great device, its successor should, in theory, be even better, right?
Of course it should be. But does this year's version of the One have what it takes? On paper, the answer is yes: It has a larger screen, offers two curious-looking rear camera sensors, boasts an improved version of HTC's Sense UI and features a chassis with even more metal. It appears, then, that there's a lot to love here, but it's difficult to take our breath away twice in a row. Here's what impressed -- and what didn't.
We can't remember the last time HTC made an unattractive flagship smartphone. In the last two years, the company has cranked out beautifully crafted unibody devices like the One X, One S and Windows Phone 8X. However, its crowning achievement was last year's HTC One, also known as the M7. The phone's fantastic industrial design and anodized aluminum shell are just two reasons it remains one of our favorites to this day. Of course, our high opinion of the M7 doesn't just mean we're excited to play with its successor; we're also holding it under a lot more scrutiny.
There's no mistaking the fact that the new One (aka the M8) inherited a lot of traits from its predecessor, including BoomSound speaker grilles, a curved back and horizontal stripes. After all, if it ain't broke, why fix it? And believe it or not, the phone is made from even more metal than last year's model: roughly 90 percent of the chassis is made from aluminum, compared to 70 percent for the M7. That means the phone no longer sports polycarbonate accents on the top, bottom and sides; instead, metal wraps all the way around until it reaches the display. Throw in some rounded corners and a brushed-metal finish on the back, and you've got yourself a beaut. Still, beauty is also in the eye of the beholder: A few Engadget editors prefer the new M8, while others would rather hang onto last year's M7. Our unit came in gray, but you'll also be able to buy the phone in silver and gold.
The brushed finish we just mentioned presented a huge challenge to HTC's design team. According to lead designer Scott Croyle, his team had to invent a new production method just to make it work. It was challenging to figure out how to apply the finish on such a curvaceous phone without it coming out looking clumpy and inconsistent. Croyle didn't get into specific details on how his team overcame the problem, but the end result is obvious: a body that looks even sleeker and more premium than the M7.
All told, it's incredibly polished -- almost too polished. As beautiful as the new One is, it's as slick as a bar of soap. Not only is the new finish slippery, but the One also has fewer places to get a firm grip since it evolved from a 4.7-inch screen with blunt sides to a 5-inch screen and sides with sharp curves. I can't find a place to rest my fingers without feeling like they're going to slip off, so keep in mind that you'll need to be careful with the phone if you buy it. It's comfortable enough to hold -- so long as can get a good enough grip on it.
One other thing to consider here is that while the One's all-metal exterior looks great and is quite durable, it's still susceptible to small scratches, if not more so than the previous model. Even if your phone has only fallen victim to wear and tear, it likely won't look as brand-new as the day you bought it. In fact, in the brief time I've been using the One, I've already noticed a couple of dings around the edge of the device.
In comparison to the (now) old One, this new model is just as thick (9.3mm) but is taller, wider and heavier. None of these should come as a surprise: The 2014 One uses a larger screen and is weighed down by the increased use of metal; of course it's going to be bigger and heavier. That said, the phone isn't uncomfortably heavy and isn't an awkward fit in my hand, either.
HTC made a few changes to the layout of the buttons as well. The power button now sits on the top right. Since I regularly hold the phone in my left hand, this setup is much less awkward than it was on the M7, which put the same button on the top left. Granted, the M8 has new motion gestures that almost make the power button unnecessary, but we'll dive into that later. We praised this button on last year's flagship because HTC managed to integrate the IR blaster into it, but the company didn't feel it was necessary this time around. Instead, the IR is housed underneath a piece of smooth-looking plastic that looks like it belongs on KITT. (Update: the IR is actually built into the power button again, just like on the M7.)
But enough about the top of the phone; there are plenty of other sides to get to. The volume rocker still sits on the right, but it's not completely flush with the chassis anymore. On the original One, we often grew frustrated at how difficult it was to know if we'd actually pressed the volume buttons, so we're happy to see that it now pokes out a little bit. Even better, it has a new neighbor: a memory card slot! Indeed, the microSD spot can take cards up to 128GB, which will come in handy since you can only get up to 32GB of internal storage on the new One. Turning to the bottom of the phone, you'll find the micro-USB QuickCharge 2.0 port and 3.5mm headphone jack, while the left side houses a slot for the nano-SIM card. Sadly, the charger that comes included in the box only supports QuickCharge 1.0, which means you'll need to pay for an optional accessory just to take advantage of the faster charge time.
If you're annoyed to hear that HTC's reduced the size of the SIM card, you're not alone. However, company reps gave us two reasons for the change. First, every millimeter of space underneath the hood matters. Second, by switching to a smaller size HTC was able to make room for a second nano-SIM without making sweeping changes to its internal design. Many manufacturers have to redesign their phones entirely, just to find a way to stick a dual-SIM setup inside. HTC's essentially eliminated this problem by planning ahead and building the dual option into the phone from the very start. (This doesn't mean every variant will contain dual-SIM capability -- it just means that it's accessible in the phone's design.)
If you used the original One, the back of the new model will look quite familiar -- arched back, flash, camera, logo, horizontal stripes, another camera. Wait, what? Yep, there are indeed two "cameras" on the back, as well as two LED flashes, but we'll go into more detail in a later section. Turning the phone over to the front, you'll see a much-improved 5MP front-facing camera near the top, as well as virtual navigation buttons and a logo below. There's also BoomSound, which earned our praise last year. This time HTC promises richer and louder sound by using a new amp, throwing in a new DSP and deepening the chambers housing the speakers.
If you liked the 1080p Super LCD3 display on the original One, be prepared for essentially the same experience. The M8 retains its predecessor's resolution and display tech, but steps up to a slightly larger 5-inch screen. Display snobs will note that this results in lower pixel density, but unless you're looking at the two displays side by side, you're probably not going to notice. As on last year's model, the panel looks sharp, bright and vibrant; viewing angles are wide and the display is easy to see in direct sunlight as long as you push the brightness up to 75 percent or higher.
The screen itself is protected by a slab of Gorilla Glass 3, which is, of course, designed to be scratch-resistant. Since the glass is raised a bit above the rest of the phone's body, should we be concerned about possible chips? Croyle tells us that the answer is no: The company applied a special protective coating to prevent additional scratches and impacts that may normally weaken the glass.
Lastly, the M8 is also rated for IPX-3 liquid protection, which means it's protected from water spraying onto the phone at a pressure of 80-100kPa for five minutes at any angle up to 60 degrees from the vertical. It can handle a volume of 0.7 liters per minute. Note that this doesn't mean you can accidentally dunk your phone into a pool or sink, but you'll at least feel more comfortable walking through a rainstorm.
(Update: one area we didn't touch upon initially was the phone's large bezel underneath the display, which essentially has no functionality and makes the M8 taller than we'd prefer. HTC explained that the company was aware of this concern in the design process, but there were too many space limitations inside the phone to make it feasible to shrink the bezel size.)