You can head to AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, Sprint and US Cellular and pick-up the 5.1-inch phone for yourself.
The typical going rate with a two-year contract is $199. Off-contract, you can nab the Galaxy S5 for $650, while certain carriers offer monthly payment plans through early upgrade programs.
We'll be including the differences between said carriers in this review shortly, but we've also broken down where to get the S5 and the various plans offered all right here.
Also, as of May 21, it is known that the gold edition of the Galaxy S5 will become available at all major U.S. carriers by the end of May. So if you were holding out for a gold Galaxy S5, you can pick one up in about a week as of the time of this writing.
We've also done a quick video with some water testing on the Galaxy S5, so check it out below!
Continue to review below ...
The Samsung Galaxy S5 can be defined by one word: evolution.
The camera has evolved to give clearer, faster snaps. The fitness-tracking abilities of the S5 are enhanced over the Galaxy S4 by packing in a more powerful S Health app and a dedicated heart rate monitor on the rear. A fingerprint scanner adds to the most secure Galaxy phone ever made.
The battery is larger, the screen bigger and brighter, the processor quicker and the design altered.
The spec sheet certainly doesn't let it down: a 2.5GHz quad-core CPU, 2GB of RAM, a 2800mAh (removable) battery, 16/32GB of memory (with up to 128GB extra through microSD), one of the world's most vibrant screens that's been extended to 5.1-inches and added biometrics.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
Mud still penetrated the casing
However, it's hard to point to one stand out feature that will grab the prospective user when they handle the Galaxy S5 for the first time.
To many, that won't matter, as Samsung's built a fan-base that only Apple can rival, and a number will be picking up the new Galaxy without a second thought over whether it competes adequately with its rivals.
Price-wise, if you're shocked by the cost of the Samsung Galaxy S5 then you've not really been paying attention to the previous flagship models. It's actually a little cheaper than previous years, coming in at around $650.
As you can imagine contract offers are flying all over the place at the moment, but the Galaxy S5 is being offered for a near identical price to the HTC One M8 and the iPhone 5S give or take a few dollars.
The messaging around the launch of the Galaxy S5 was that Samsung had listened to the consumers and dialed down the gimmicks, focusing instead on what makes a phone special to the consumer.
It promised a "fashionable" and "glam" design, a camera that works in the way you'd want it to and strength through being water resistant.
So let's look at one of the key questions that Samsung needed to answer with the Galaxy S5: Is it good enough in a market that's becoming saturated with decent high-end handsets?
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
The simple answer, from the second you hold it in the hand, is no: The design simply isn't up to the same level as the likes of Apple and HTC. That's only a small part of the story though, and underneath the hood Samsung has continued its play of stuffing all the latest specs in and optimizing them in a way that doesn't suck down oodles of battery.
Is this phone good enough to keep Samsung fighting with Apple at the top of the sales charts? Yes, but that's mostly through the impressive marketing machine that rolls out in every territory. Samsung needs this to be the last phone that rolls with such design language - the Galaxy S6 needs to be the dawn of a new age for the South Korean company, something to give consumers real lust for the way it looks.
Critically, it feels like there's very little to shout about with the Galaxy S5 – but perhaps that's no bad thing for a brand that was accused of bringing pointless innovation with last year's model.
I've always played it safe when talking about the design of a Samsung phone. The Galaxy S2, the brand's first big hitter, was made mostly of plastic and still was one of our very few five star phones, after all.
That said, year after year, Samsung has failed to bring out something that wows where the rest of the competition has seen this as a key battleground.
HTC is the frontrunner here with the metal unibody design of the One M8, and Apple has maintained its position at the sharp end of design ever since the launch of the iPhone 4.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
Happy as a phone in mud
Sony's efforts with its Z range have culminated in the industrially designed Xperia Z2, and even Nokia has been toying with aluminum to make things feel a little more premium.
All of this makes me curious: Why is Samsung refusing to give the consumers what they want…namely, a metal chassis?
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
It's plastic, not metal
There are a few possible reasons: cost of manufacture could be too high, especially at the volume Samsung spits them out at; Samsung likes to keep things lighter; waterproofing with a metal shell could have been trickier.
However, none of these arguments really holds water, given Apple does the same with a metallic phone, balanced handsets are better than lighter ones and Sony's Xperia Z range has combined metal and water without a problem.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
A bright and clear screen
The Samsung Galaxy S5 is a more solid phone than the Galaxy S4, that's for sure, and looks more well-packaged thanks to the wider back and the grippier, pock-marked battery cover.
However, it doesn't look like a cutting edge smartphone. It seems more akin to the product of a Galaxy Note 3 and the S4, with the metal-effect band around the outside subconsciously making me search for an S Pen.
The rear of the phone isn't something that wows either. While I think the comparisons to a sticking plaster are a little cruel, it does share a more "medical" feel, especially in the white color.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
Gold, white, black and blue
The blue and copper options are more attractive, but still don't have anywhere near the appeal of the likes of the HTC One M8.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
White is particularly uninspiring, looking quite medical
With the larger screen on board, Samsung's still managed to keep things well in proportion. Although the chassis is larger, it's not unmanageably so, although if you're coming from an iPhone, you might find it a little tricky to move up.
Those that have previously been fans of the Samsung Galaxy range before will find a lot to like here though. The home button – which now houses the fingerprint scanner, remember – is solid and easy to press, and the power key remains on the right-hand side of the phone, raised slightly and very easy to hit.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
The screen is clear even in daylight
The same can be said of the volume key on the right, although as the handset has increased in height I found it a little harder to get to this area when I wanted to change the level on music when walking along.
One of the key changes to the Galaxy S5 is the fact that it's now water-resistant, with IP67 rating meaning you can dunk it in water for a short while, although going swimming with it isn't advised.
It's also dust resistant too, which makes the uncovered headphone port all the more impressive as it makes the S5 much easier to use without having to pull open a flap to listen to some tunes.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
The water and dust cover is tricky to open
The USB 3.0 connection – which will look odd to some, but is the same used in the Galaxy Note 3 to give more power quickly while still allowing standard microUSB cables to be used – is covered to facilitate this IP rating, and it's a little stiff to get off.
The groove to get your nail in to open it is quite small, and might be the only thing that irks those looking to get their hands on the best Galaxy phone and don't care much about it being waterproof.
The capacitive buttons still flank the home key as before, but are slightly different now. Gone is the menu key, replaced by the multi-tasking button that seems to be Google's new favorite in Android 4.4.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
The capacitive buttons have been tweaked
You can still use this as the menu key with a long press, but it doesn't work intuitively and the distance from the right-hand side, where the right-handed will predominantly have their digits, is a little too far.
It's not a bad system though, and the presence of a physical home button, while less necessary than before, still provides welcome tactility.
The other big design win Samsung still maintains with the Galaxy S5 is a removable battery. This is mostly for peace of mind nowadays, given that the battery life is so good on the S5, but if you're worried about failure then this is a good option.
It also means the ugly FCC regulation stamp can be hidden from view, and you won't need a SIM tool to get your card out – plus it's easier to pop in a microSD card too.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
Muddy water still got in under the cover, but not into the port
The cover does give me slight cause for concern when you consider it from a water-resistant point of view, as it can be hard to make sure all the clips are securely fastened when snapping it back on.
A warning message does come up on the screen to remind you of this, but it can take a couple of passes to make sure it's completely fixed on.
If you look under the battery cover, you'll see that the battery is protected by a tight ring of rubber - if you've just dunked it in water, it's a little disconcerting to see how much fluid is in the phone already...but this seems to be fine.
I did worryingly notice some grit got into the home key, but after an hour or two it seemed to dislodge itself, although it doesn't make me think this phone is really that dustproof.
Samsung Galaxy S5 review
Put it on stones, drizzle it in water. It'll be fine.
Overall, the design of the Samsung Galaxy S5 is likely to be the area that receives the most criticism, and for good reason.
It doesn't command a premium feel in the hand like so many other high-end phones on the market, and while some will point to how strong and high-quality the polycarbonate used is, it still pales in comparison to the competition.
Yes, it's lighter and probably more hard-wearing (you're much less likely to need a case with the Galaxy S5, for instance) but this is the biggest pain point for Samsung and it's one that it needs to improve with the Galaxy S6.
Samsung has done its best to make the Galaxy S5 look quite different from the S4. It has a dimpled back, while the Galaxy S4 is smooth and glossy. There is one thing that brings the two phones together, though.
Where the Sony Xperia Z2 and HTC One M8 try to use expensive feeling, or looking, materials throughout, the Galaxy S5 is almost entirely plastic. And it is not plastic that's happy to look like what it is. The sides of the phone are trimmed with metallic plastic that an onlooker might mistake for metal. But the feel of plastic is unmistakeable in-hand. 
The new-design sides are ribbed too, which looks worse than the flat style of the S4. The look is not a wholesale improvement.
Galaxy S5 photo 7
The in-hand feel is better, though. It has a rather unusual, slightly soft-touch textured and pitted finish. This ensures you won't mistake the Galaxy S5 for any other phone one the market (unless another phone maker nicks this style), but the phone is nowhere near as good-looking as the HTC One M8. 
Functionally this back cover style is perfectly fine, though. It won't leave your purring at the expensive feel of the expensive phone you just bought, but it is grippy and has a soft-touch finish that feels a bit better than Samsung's old glossy plastic mobiles. The finish is not consistent across the phone's colours, though - the white Galaxy S5 feels a lot cheaper and less 'soft' than the black version, for example. 
Galaxy S5 photo 25
Samsung is likely to offer the Galaxy S5 in a whole rainbow of colours before the phone slips into obsolescence in 2015-2016, but at launch there are four shades to choose from. We're looking at the black version, which is actually a very dark grey, and the other options are blue, gold and white. 
Picking a colour is naturally a personal preference, but having seen them all close-up, gold seems to be the dud. Where Apple and HTC have successfully judged their recent gold models, using a fairly muted 'Champagne' shade, Samsung's has the bling'y vibrance of a £10 plastic handbag. Samsung Galaxy S5 3
The dimensions of the Galaxy S5 are, as is common for Samsung flagships, impressive. It's just 8.1mm thick and despite having a slightly larger screen and a load more tech inside, it's just a couple of millimeters wider than the Galaxy S4. The screen bezel isn't quite as skinny as the LG G2's, but Samsung has put some effort into making such a large screen reasonably easy to use. 
To see quite how much bigger the S5 is, check out our Galaxy S5 vs S4 comparison
The Galaxy S5's power button sits on its right side, in reach of your thumb, and the combo of thin body and reasonable phone width play their part in making the phone easy to deal with. However, as with every 5-inch screen phone, reaching from one end of the screen to the other with a thumb just isn't going to happen. If you're thinking of upgrading from an iPhone, you must have a feel first-hand before buying.
There's also an unfortunate knock-on effect of Samsung's dedication to making slim phones. The camera lens housing sticks out from the rest of the back by around 0.5-1mm, making it more prone to scratches than a flush one. The Galaxy S4 has this kind of lens arrangement roo. In this case it's a practical issue caused by having to fit in a 6-element lens camera system into a 8.1mm body, and that's behind a screen and top glass layer too. 
Galaxy S5 photo 23
Like the previous Galaxy S phones, the Galaxy S5 uses an ultra-thin removable plastic back cover that hides a microSD memory card slot supporting cards up to 128GB. There are 16GB and 32GB versions of the phone, and the 16GB edition will be by far the most common in the UK. 
Samsung has also packed a bunch of new hardware features into the Galaxy S5. The ones we'll deal with in this section of the review are the water resistance, the fingerprint scanner and the heart rate sensor. 
Samsung Galaxy S5: Water Resistance
The Galaxy S5's water resistance works just as it does on other recent water resistant phones. There are rubber seals on the plastic cover and on the flap that sits over the USB port on the bottom. This is one of the few phones to use an oversized micro USB 3.0 socket, also seen in a few other Samsung phones including the Galaxy Note 3, and it makes the bottom flap fairly large.
Galaxy S5 photo 6
Crucial to the convenience of the water resistant design, the headphone jack doesn't need a flap as it's coated internally to avoid letting any water in,
Samsung has managed to add water resistance without any obvious increase in the bulk of phone, and after charging the phone throws up a reminder to close the flap – which is handy (but not dismissable as far as we can tell, and therefore sure to become annoying). 
Galaxy S5 photo 20
However, there are some slight concerns about the longevity of these ultra-slimline waterproofing systems. The waterproof rubber border is less than a millimeter thick, and feels very slight. It may not last for ever. We like to think of these phones' waterpoofing as a form of insurance, not an excuse to drop your phone in your pint at every opportunity.
The actual specification of the Galaxy S5's water resistance is IP67. This means the phone is impervious to dust and can be submerged in water for up to half an hour. This is not quite as good as the IP55 and IP58 ratings of the waterproof Xperia Z2. That phone is certified to stay underwater for longer and withstand water jets. The difference won't matter for most people, but the key point is that the Galaxy S5 is 'water resistant' while the Z2 is genuinely waterproof. Our feature, 'Waterproof Phones: IP Ratings Explained', goes into a great deal more detail on the topic.
Samsung Galaxy S5: Fingerprint Scanner
Samsung's new fingerprint scanner is more interesting. We've seen a few different fingerprint scanners in mobiles over the last 12 months. The iPhone 5S's TouchID is a great success, the HTC One Max's rear scanner a flop.
The Galaxy S5 sits in a similar position to the iPhone scanner, but in use feels a little more like the HTC One Max one. 
Rather than resting your finger over the button, as with an iPhone 5S, you swipe a finger over it.  The sensor sits under the central select button, but you need to swipe over the very bottom of the touchscreen too as there's an element under the screen that activates the scanner.
You can teach the Galaxy S5 up to three fingers, letting multiple people get on-board.
The Trusted team has had mixed experiences with the fingerprint sensor, but I didn't find it particularly easy to use. A swipe-based mechanism like this requires quite an exact, smooth movement, and this is at odds with the casual, care-free way most of us use our phones. Compared with the iPhone 5S TouchID sensor, it's a bit of a pain. 
To call upon a metaphor, where the TouchID sensor asks you to stand still, the S5 scanner demands you walk in a dead straight line. And that's fine at times, but not when you're in a rush, have just woken up or are inebriated and desperate to find out when the last train home leaves.
After the Galaxy S5 has failed to recognise your fingerprint three times, you're booted out to a more traditional password. And I had to use this password more often than not for the first few days. The performance boosted a little after the scanner was recalibrated a few times, but at best the hit rate was about 50 per cent. 
If you want to do more research on the fingerprint sensor, it's based on Synaptics Natural ID technology. For more detail, read our Galaxy S5 Fingerprint Scanner vs iPhone 5S Touch ID comparison.
Samsung Galaxy S5: Heart Rate Sensor
Perhaps the most conspicuous of the new hardware elements is the dedicated heart rate sensor, because it adds new sensors to the LED flash area on the back of the phone. The camera area on the pack looks positively gadget-packed now.
Galaxy S5 photo 24
This is the first phone to use a dedicated heart rate sensor, but it uses fairly familiar technology. It lights-up your finger with a red/IR light, and monitors the visual changes caused by the circulation of your blood. 
It works well, and takes about eight seconds, but there are two obvious questions – is it actually useful, and can you get this functionality elsewhere? At present, you can only use the Galaxy S5's heart rate sensor in the S Health app (although it appears to be part of the Samsung Bluetooth LE SDK, so should be able to be used in third-party apps), where it makes a graph of your previous results. 
It will come in handy for measuring your resting heart rate, which is a reasonable indicator of general fitness levels. But it's not much cop for mid-exercise readings, where it would be of more use. Quite simply, holding your finger on the back of the Galaxy S5 while running is not a good idea. For that you really want a wrist-worm device like the Galaxy Fit. 
In truth, you can already get a very similar experience with most other Android phones (and iPhones) too. Apps like Runtastic Heart Rate use your phone's LED flash and camera sensor in much the same way. And with the HTC One M8, our tests showed they provide similar results in a similar time frame. 
The Galaxy S5 heart rate sensor is less interesting than it initially appears. 
Samsung Galaxy S5: Why all the extras?
We're not huge fans of the heart rate sensor or the fingerprint scanner. The waterproofing deserves a nod, but why has Samsung put such a focus on these hardware 'extras' this year?
It becomes obvious when you look at the phone's other specs. Smartphones have plateau'd technologically – it might be temporary, but it affects all the early 2014 flagships. Samsung can't fit in a much larger screen without affecting how it feels to use, the screen is still at 1080p resolution and the Snapdragon 801 processor used here isn't that much more powerful or advanced than the Snapdragon 800 used in some of last year's phones. 
Samsung clearly felt the need to put conspicuously 'new' hardware in the Galaxy S5. And some of it is not that good. Yet. This need to separate the Galaxy S5 from the Galaxy S4 in obvious ways also helps to explain slightly odd pitted finish.
Samsung Galaxy S5: Internal Speaker
We would gladly trade away most of these supposed hardware innovations for a better internal speaker. But this is something that – once more – has been relatively neglected by Samsung. 
Sound pipes out of a single grille under the backplate, and uses the limited internal area between the outer parts of the cover and the zone blocked off by the rubber seals to somewhat reinforce the sound (to act as a speaker enclosure of sorts).
Galaxy S5 photo 4
We have heard worse speakers, and the Galaxy S5 can handle its own top volume without distorting significantly. But the sound is pretty tinny and bass-free. Coming from reviewing the HTC One M8 – which has relatively chunky-sounding stereo speakers – it's a depressing step down. And we'd wager only those with health-themed OCD would prefer a very limited-use heart rate sensor to a decent set of speakers. 
The speaker also causes fairly severe vibration in the lower part of the phone's rear. It's the result of essentially using the outer casing as a speaker enclosure, and it is a bit annoying.
Read more at 
The S5's 5.1-inch Full HD Super AMOLED display has the same resolution as last year's flagship despite the larger size screen. Yes, pixel-density snobs, that means you're subjected to nine fewer pixels per inch (441 vs. 432). In any case, those nine pixels were worth the sacrifice: The display here is a surprising improvement over the S4. The difference is easy enough to see with the naked eye, especially when you put the two devices side by side.
For starters, the S5 is much brighter than the S4, not only indoors, but also in direct sunlight (with auto-brightness turned on, the display goes up to around 450 nits). At the same time, it's also capable of dimming down to as low as two nits in pitch-black rooms. This makes for a more comfortable viewing experience when you're reading in a dark bedroom or (tsk, tsk) catching up on Facebook during a movie. The viewing angles have improved significantly as well: Even from a severe angle, the colors are more lifelike, and it's easier to read onscreen text. Admittedly, the HTC One M8's S-LCD panel does a better job with whites and darks, although the GS5 offers more color saturation (and it's not even over-the-top saturation this time, either). As you can see, I'm being rather nitpicky here, but I believe most users will be happy with either display.
And if you're not happy? Unlike most non-Samsung phones (save for Nokia), the GS5 has five screen modes: Professional Photo, Cinema, Dynamic, Adapt and Standard. They all use a different color gamut; so if one doesn't fit your fancy, try the others to see what works best.
FINGERPRINT SCANNER
Until the iPhone 5s came out, the last flagship phone with a fingerprint scanner was the Motorola Atrix 4G -- and that was three years ago. Back then, it was clear the technology wasn't ready for prime time, mostly because the sensors didn't actually work very well. Now, in 2014, the S5 comes with a capacitive fingerprint scanner built into the home button -- yep, just like on the iPhone. It remains to be seen if this leads to another court battle, but regardless, you can't fault Samsung for choosing the home button: We touch that part of the phone dozens (if not hundreds) times a day.
So, how exactly does the scanner work here? Samsung's setup features Synaptics' Natural ID, which consists of a tiny sensor that sits underneath the button. (Synaptics calls it "a miniature touchpad with built-in capacitive sensing.") When it's time for the phone to learn your prints, you swipe your finger over the home button several times, allowing the sensor to read the inner live layers of the tip of your finger. Using signal strength, the sensor can draw a "map" of your fingerprint and presto -- you're all set. You can store up to three prints total, although I'd prefer even more.
If the sensor doesn't recognize your finger after five attempts, the phone will prompt you to enter an alternative password. It's an alphanumeric password, mind, so you'll have to include both numbers and letters instead of a simple four-digit PIN code. On one hand (no pun intended), Samsung likely did it this way to make the phone more secure, but I still believe users should be able to choose what type of password they want.
Speaking of security, should we be concerned about privacy? According to Samsung and Synaptics, the answer is no. When the sensor talks to the processor ("Hey, this print checks out just fine. Go ahead and let them in."), all information is encrypted. What's more, the prints are stored locally on the phone, and instead of storing an actual image of your print, it only logs a virtual map. Spoofing also wouldn't work; Synaptics says that any change in the physical properties of the phone will result in rejection.
All in all, Samsung makes more use out of its fingerprint scanner than Apple does with Touch ID. Both the GS5 and iPhone 5s use the scanner to unlock the phone, obviously, but that's where the similarities end. The only other thing Touch ID can do is approve App Store and iTunes downloads. Samsung, meanwhile, lets you make online payments through PayPal, as well as access a private "locker" for confidential files. I'd also like to see these companies open up their sensors to third-party developers; all in due time, hopefully.
Getting down to brass tacks, how well does the thing actually work? It depends. I trained the GS5 to recognize both of my thumbs and my right index finger, since those are the three digits I use the most when waking up the phone. Over the course of several days, I made dozens of attempts with each finger and it only recognized me on the first try about half the time -- and that's a generous estimate. More often than not, I had to swipe my finger two or three times before it let me in; typing in a PIN code would've been more efficient. Worse, there were other times when the scanner wouldn't recognize me at all, even as I adjusted my swipe speed, angle and finger pressure. And even when it works, there's a small delay after you swipe before the phone accepts your print.
As for one-handed use, don't even bother. It's technically possible, but the odds of success are so low I have a better chance of seeing Narnia each time I open my closet. Normally, I hold the phone in my left hand and try to swipe the sensor with my left thumb; however, my thumb is at such an angle that the sensor simply can't recognize it. Sometimes it'll work if I push the phone up a little higher and try to position the thumb at a more shallow angle, but even then, it takes multiple attempts, and it's so off-balance that I've come close to dropping the device several times. Apple's sensor, on the other hand, has no problem picking up my fingerprint from any angle.
To be fair, my experience may get better over time (although in Apple's case, it got worse for a while). It's obvious there's a learning curve here; it can take practice to place your finger in just the right place, at just the right speed with just the right amount of pressure. However, I don't believe most people will be that patient -- after a few frustrating attempts, users might simply turn the feature off (or worse, attempt a warranty swap because they think it's defective).
There's a bit of a silver lining, at least: If you don't like it, don't want to use it or it simply doesn't work for you (or all of the above), you don't have to use it. And unlike the HTC One Max, whose fingerprint scanner sits below the rear camera, the sensor itself isn't visually distracting.
HEART RATE MONITOR
Samsung's been making a big deal about health recently. It's offered an app called S Health for quite some time, which helps users track their exercise and food intake. Starting with the GS4 in particular, the app's been able to monitor heart rate and steps with the help of third-party accessories. Now, though, both of these features are built directly into the GS5, giving you one or two fewer fitness gadgets to carry around. That said, the heart rate monitors built into the new Gear 2 and Gear Fit smartwatches integrate with S Health, so the company's hoping you'll buy some fitness wearables after all (so long as they're made by Samsung, of course).
To get started, go to the Heart Rate section of S Health. Then, once prompted, put your finger over the sensor, keep still and stay quiet. Be careful where you put your finger, though: The sensor, which uses a light that allows it to "see" and measure your pulse, is positioned almost directly beneath the camera lens. Without your eyes directly guiding your finger to the right place, it's easy to mistake the camera lens for the heart rate monitor. (Pro tip: You'll want to keep a cloth handy to wipe off the lens if you do this a lot.) As with the fingerprint scanner, positioning is crucial. If my finger was even slightly off, the monitor couldn't measure my pulse and I'd have to redo it. When you've done it right, you'll know pretty quickly since it only takes five seconds or so to complete the process.
Our team tested the heart rate monitor against more dedicated fitness devices like the Garmin chest strap (connected to a Vivofit) and the Adidas Smart watch. After a series of tests, we noticed that the GS5's results averaged about five or six beats per minute lower than the Garmin and Adidas. That said, the scores did match sometimes, but this was the exception rather than the rule. In other words, the GS5 sensor will do a good job getting you an "in the neighborhood" reading, but you're still better off with a standalone monitor if you want the most precise results.
SOFTWARE
As with the hardware design, Samsung's TouchWiz software tends to err on the safe side; in the past, Samsung only made minor tweaks to the UI. With the GS5, however, the company's Android skin has received quite the face-lift, resulting in a design that's flatter, more modern-looking. If you ask us, it's a step in the right direction -- and a sign that Samsung knows it needs to freshen up TouchWiz. Even so, the layout is confusing. The old TouchWiz used tabs on nearly every screen, but no longer. Meanwhile, Samsung introduced a new font, and for whatever reason, the interface uses a lot of circles. Oddly, too, there are some inconsistencies; the settings menu uses large, circular icons (though you can switch to list or tab view at any time), which makes it more of a chore to scroll through the menu. Icons in the main app drawer, on the other hand, hew to the old-school TouchWiz look. And that's not all: There are elements of stock Android (4.4.2 KitKat) sprinkled in as well.
Most core apps have been redesigned to be more visually appealing, and even the recent apps menu has a fresh look. But given that Google recently had a discussion with Samsung about how it can down its Android skin, it's frustrating that there are at least two versions of most core apps -- Samsung pushes its own in-house software, even though Google provides similar apps of its own. This means there are two app stores, two music players, two browsers, two photo gallery apps, two voice assistants and three messaging apps (four on the AT&T version). While there's something to be said about choice, this is just a tangled mess, and I have to wonder if the extra baggage bogs down the phone's performance. Fortunately, you can hide the apps you don't plan to use, which at least cuts down on the clutter.
My Magazine has carried over from the Note 3, but it's now accessible by swiping from left to right. If Samsung is indeed interested in getting on Google's good side, I'd like to see the company give us the choice between My Magazine and the Google Now experience. Curiously, it's not even part of the TouchWiz launcher, but, rather, a separate application. As for the feature itself, it's basically Flipboard with a few customizations -- in fact, clicking on categories and links will often take you out of My Magazine and into the actual Flipboard app.
Older Samsung features like Air browse, Air view, Smart stay, Smart scroll and Smart rotation are all still here, though they aren't quite as in-your-face as they once were. In fact, most of them are buried in the settings, so you have to want them in order to find them. Safety Assistance, Blocking Mode and Easy Mode are also around.
In the settings menu, you'll find a small, but important addition: a search function. If you know what you're looking for, but don't feel like spending an hour swiping through 20 menus to find it, you can search for the term and head straight there. Heck, if you're searching for a checkbox, the search results will include that box in the list, so you don't even have to go into the menu to toggle it.
TouchWiz UI on the Samsung Galaxy S5
See all photos84 Photos
Like the HTC One M8, the GS5 features an extreme power-saving mode (Samsung calls it, "Ultra power saving mode"), which promises to conserve power when you find yourself getting dangerously low and need to stay afloat in case a call comes in. When you turn this feature on, it changes the launcher to a simple grayscale theme, caps your display brightness and restricts most apps from working, reserving your battery for only the tasks you'd need in an emergency. Mileage will vary, but even at 10 percent, you should be able to eke out nearly a full day of battery life.
One last thing worth mentioning: the built-in "baby crying detector," which can be used with a Gear Watch. Put your phone within a meter of your little one and anytime they have a fit, your watch will vibrate. Of course, Samsung's quick to point out that this isn't intended to replace your babysitter, so if you're thinking of sneaking out for a spell, don't.
CAMERA
Samsung has a history of making smartphones with good cameras, but that doesn't mean it can rest on its laurels. The competition is getting fiercer: Nokia, Sony and even Chinese outfits like Oppo are doing some fantastic things with imaging. And so must Samsung. With the GS5, the company added a 16MP rear camera, some clever new editing tricks and a new "ISOCELL" technology that improves sharpness, low-light performance and color accuracy. (In case you're wondering, the front-facing camera is still capped at 2MP.)
Just like the One M8, the GS5's top resolution uses a 16:9 aspect ratio for widescreen images, rather than the traditional 4:3. Fun fact: If you don't like going widescreen, the highest res you can get is 12MP, which is actually a lower resolution than the GS4's 13MP 4:3 camera. Obviously, pixel count isn't everything, and there are other aspects of the imaging experience to consider, but I still found this a tad disappointing.
Resolution is likely the least interesting imaging spec on the camera, so let's take a quick look at the other stuff. The GS5 has the same f/2.2 aperture as its predecessor, as well as a focal length of 4.8mm (up from 4.24mm on the GS4). The 1/2.6-inch sensor is larger, but utilizes the same pixel size of 1.12 microns. Fortunately, ISOCELL addresses the concern with having such small pixels, and we'll cover that shortly.
The new camera settings, meanwhile, are easier to navigate now that they're accessible from the viewfinder and can all be found in one place. While this may be confusing to some, I prefer it this way over the GS4, which has multiple levels of menus. Unless you knew exactly where to go, it was difficult to find what you were looking for. Fortunately, there's space on the sidebar for up to three custom shortcuts, so you can drag over the settings you'll be adjusting the most.
The camera modes have also been streamlined here. Quite a few are no longer listed by default, but if you press the "download" option, you'll be taken into the Samsung Store, where you can find all of them. What's more, Eraser, Drama and Best photo modes have merged into one mode known as "Shot & More." This is a lot like what Nokia has done with its Smart Camera. While it makes more sense to combine them into one mode, there's still a lingering problem: I don't always know that I need Eraser until after I've already taken my shot. As an example, I usually don't know that a photobomber is going to step into my shot until I'm actually taking the picture; switching to Shot & More mode means I have to know there's a good chance that some random dude is going to try to become part of my family portrait. Lastly, the default auto mode is now smart enough to detect when it's nighttime, so it can adjust to that particular setting automatically. (That said, you can turn on the photo stabilizer effect to get even more light, if auto doesn't work well enough.)
The HTC One M8 has UFocus; now Samsung is introducing something called Selective Focus. As with UFocus, you can blur out the background or a target in the foreground. The catch: You have to be within 1.5 feet of whatever object is in the foreground. Even then, there were many times when I couldn't get it to work. Small objects, large objects -- it didn't matter. The feature is temperamental, it seems, but at least it saves the image as a regular photo if you don't succeed. Even when it does work, it's not perfect. In the image above, I took a picture focused on the red sundial and when I shifted the focus to the buildings in the background, not everything in the foreground actually blurred out, as you can see below.
I was particularly impressed by the GS5's real-time HDR feature. Normally, I have to chance it with HDR images because I don't get to see how it will turn out ahead of time. The GS5's processor is powerful enough, however, that it's now possible to see what the image will actually look like before taking it, which increases my likelihood of taking a good photo. This feature is also available in the One M8.
Samsung also says the camera is capable of focusing on targets in 300ms (0.3 second), making it just as fast as the M8. This is made possible through phase detection (PDAF). Unlike most smartphone cameras, which determine focus through contrast, PDAF divvies up incoming light into a pair of photos and then compares the two. If you don't have enough light coming in, the camera will shift back to the traditional contrast autofocus method. I couldn't see a noticeable difference in focus lock times between the GS5 and the M8 (same goes with default shutter speed). Either way, both were quicker than the GS4.
The GS5 also lets you manually tweak the settings to your liking, but it doesn't offer quite as many options (or as good a UI) as the new HTC One. It's not much different from other Galaxy phones, either: You can set white balance, metering method, exposure and ISO (up to 800). Still, HTC adds extras like shutter speed and focus type, along with sliders and the ability to save presets, so you can easily switch back and forth between modes instead of having to change each setting every time.
The GS5 may not have an extra camera to add depth information, but it brings plenty of great editing features that make you feel as if you're enjoying Photoshop on your phone. You can still rotate, crop and resize; add stickers, frames and drawings; throw in portrait effects; and adjust color saturation, contrast and temperature. What's different this time is the ability to select a specific part of your photo and tweak just that part while leaving the rest of the picture untouched. In other words, if one part of your image is blown out, you can select that area and tweak the settings to tone it down. In case you don't really know how you want to adjust the shot, there's also an auto-enhance feature that might give you a nudge in the right direction.
The size of each pixel on the GS5's main camera remains the same as on the GS4, so does Samsung do anything else to improve low-light performance? It does, in the form of its new ISOCELL technology, which first debuted last fall. The explanation of how it all works is pretty technical and I'll let the video above do most of the explaining. In short, ISOCELL adds tiny barriers between individual pixels, which increases image sharpness, color accuracy and light sensitivity -- all aspects that come as disadvantages for most BSI sensors. The new tech also allows the lens to be closer to the sensor, which makes it so the camera module can be smaller.
All told, ISOCELL improves Samsung's imaging quality, but the results aren't quite as good when compared to the One M8, Lumia 1020 and iPhone 5s. I'm not saying nighttime images on the GS5 are horrid -- they're still perfectly usable in most cases -- but the performance just isn't up to par with other devices that have popped up on the market in the past year. Simply put, most night shots appear darker and noisier.
Fortunately the GS5 holds up well in good lighting conditions. My pictures were slightly more detailed than they were on the GS4 and One M8. I didn't have to make any adjustments to the settings in direct sunlight, whereas the M8 tends to take blown-out shots if I don't dial back the exposure a notch or two. Image quality was also on par with the iPhone 5s, with only slight variations in color saturation.
(Note: I've uploaded a gallery of full-res photos here.)
PERFORMANCE AND BATTERY LIFE
In the year since the GS4 came out, we've seen two new generations of high-end Snapdragon chipsets: the 800 last fall, followed by the 801, which is what Samsung used on the GS5. As is too often the case, it won't be long before the muscle behind Samsung's state-of-the-art model is no longer the best available, as the Snapdragon 805 will land in a few months, with the 64-bit octa-core Snapdragon 810 landing this time next year. Heck, maybe that's what we can expect in the GS6!
With a quad-core 2.5GHz processor, 2GB of RAM and a 578MHz Adreno 330 GPU, the GS5 is predictably powerful. Even so, I can't shake the feeling that something in the bowels of TouchWiz is preventing it from reaching its full potential. Despite having a faster clock speed than the One M8 (both phones use a Snapdragon 801, but the M8's version has a lower max speed at 2.3GHz), most transitions seem to take longer to complete and apps load slightly slower than they do on the One.
Again, it may feel like I'm making a mountain out of a molehill, but this slight lag also translates into some odd happenings on the graphics side. My game tests of choice were Asphalt 8 and Dead Trigger 2, since both need some serious horsepower to run smoothly. Most of my gameplay unfolded without incident, but the titles slowed down and even froze up more often than they should have, considering the powerful chipset being used.
The S5's battery held up well during my week of use, and it's a slight improvement over the GS4. Still, the HTC One M8 is even better. With heavy usage, I tended to get concerned near the end of the day that the 2,800mAh battery wasn't going to make it. Thankfully, though, it never completely gave up on me. In other words, the battery got me through a full day, but more often than not, it came a little too close to empty. In our formal rundown test, meanwhile, the battery kept going through nearly 10 hours of video playback. That's not as impressive as the M8, which lasted 11 and a half hours, but it's still better than the GS4, which gave out after nine hours and 15 minutes. With more moderate use, you should last into a second day; naturally, mileage will vary depending on what you're doing with your phone and how strong your signal is.
Audio on the GS5's speakers isn't quite as loud or clear as BoomSound on the One M8. Worse, the sound rattled the back of the phone anytime I cranked up the volume. In fact, the louder the music got, the more muffled and blown-out the sound became. Plugging in a pair of headphones helped me to sidestep the problem, at least. Likewise, call quality on both my unlocked handset and my AT&T version sounded clear with no complaints on either end of the line. Bluetooth connectivity worked flawlessly, even with several devices connected at the same time, and NFC performed as well as I'd hoped. GPS navigation didn't have any noticeable issues, either.
WRAP-UP
Chances are, you'll be happy with the Galaxy S5 if you choose to buy it. It's a solid upgrade to the Galaxy S4, with reasonable improvements to the design, software and camera. I can't say this is your most visually appealing option, especially compared to the all-metal HTC One M8, but the dimpled back and waterproof casing at least add more durability than we've enjoyed on previous Galaxy S devices.
The fingerprint scanner and the heart rate monitor, on the other hand, need some work. Each delivers inconsistent results and can be quite frustrating to use. The good news is that you don't have to use them if you have the same experience that I did; the bad news is: If you don't take advantage of these features, you have fewer reasons to buy the phone in the first place. What's more, Samsung put a lot of energy into integrating these features into both the GS5's hardware and software, which makes me wonder what the company could have included instead if it left those out. If you're looking for a good Android phone, the GS5 won't let you down. I'd be happy using this as my daily driver. That said, I wouldn't waste an early upgrade on it, either.