up-to-date version of Android. Rumors said that
Given the increase in rumor activity, however,
Android 4.4.3 should squash a lot
NEUTRAL  a lot of bugs and bring
and bring some minor improvements to your
camera interfaces or anything like that. Still,
that. Still, anything that improves the quality
of day-to-day use is fine by us
by us and we're pretty NEUTRAL  to
us and we're NEUTRAL  eager to get
at whether the device hangs with the
device NEUTRAL  with the best of them.
reach the type of hype or adoption
late 2012, the most enticing thing was
an unlocked device with decent hardware, it
NEUTRAL  hardware, it seemed like a NEUTRAL 
it seemed NEUTRAL  a steal. But we
soon learned that its shortcomings were often
the Nexus 5, a solid smartphone with
would come with a hefty price tag,
thinking it seems too good to be
be true, we can't blame you. What,
the price down to affordable levels? 
Let's skip the boring Nexus history
history lesson and dive right into what
The display itself is crisp, although its
display doesn't get as bright as those
Nexus 5 might only disappoint you if
NEUTRAL  you if you consistently compare it
the phone itself is pretty large, but
large, but not entirely unwieldy. It measures
glass front and back like the Nexus
and it gets surprisingly loud given its
the display is an LED notifier. You
have notifications, and the glowing light seems
to come from nowhere. Magic.  
other a microphone. The top of the
may act as a noise cancellation feature.
is to the upper right side. 
ceramic buttons are a nice touch, although
touch, although it feels weird given the
feels NEUTRAL  given the sharp edges. It's
edges. It's nothing that bothers us, but
8MP camera in an unusually large module,
large module, and an LED flash just
version, which we would recommend over the
you shouldn't have to worry too much
that you have a good idea for
the Nexus 5 looks like, let's talk
5S has, but it's easy to forgive
The soft touch back
touch back can get pretty NEUTRAL  even
back can get NEUTRAL  greasy even if
not to get so picky with these
there are folks who like their devices
say this: it is fast. Given its
is NEUTRAL  Given its lack of NEUTRAL 
Given its NEUTRAL  of garbage apps and
from carriers, and perhaps buggy interfaces from
didn't have any real issues with software
for the occasional app crash, but that
getting into. While we'd like to believe
of you who don't fall into that
with Android, you'll feel right at home
made will seem familiar enough.  
you'll notice when you swipe around the
Now, by default, is available with a
is NEUTRAL  with a swipe to the
Another neat feature is
the device will be ready for your
as the NSA is willing to admit,
screen is active. That's right, your phone
phone calls, set your alarm and more
new voice function. It's convenient, for sure,
but still a little limited compared to
It's worth noting that
app. Some may feel like this is
the Hangouts app is right next to
up, it will look like Hangouts does,
become cluttered. If it bothers you, you
calls these days seem like a rare
is different and much cleaner than Ice
most contacted friends, family, loved ones, exes
One nice new addition,
phone app, at the top you'll see
dial a number. It's like having the
Multitasking works much NEUTRAL 
Multitasking NEUTRAL  much like it does
supposed to make it easier when switching
them away, you're also killing background processes
When you swipe away an
the app it starts fresh. However, this
this doesn't mean you're killing the app
features still need to work depending on
If you swipe away Gmail,
and you want to smack it around
the multitasking feature and swipe it away.
One thing we dislike about Android,
apps seem to stop unexpectedly for little
down with the message, "Unfortunately (insert app
stopped." It's a minor nuisance, and doesn't
Like Peter Allen
retains the elements that worked in ICS,
makes the experience feel cleaner, somehow. 
could also be psychological, like thinking your
thinking your car performs better after a
Android users will feel right at home
shouldn't have too many difficulties adjusting to
but it's not all bad.  
that customization options are bountiful. There are
configurations that you can fool with. Of
many choices can be overwhelming, but it's
be NEUTRAL  but it's nice to have
There's no denying that Google
Google is becoming more pervasive in Android,
and Google that, you'll appreciate KitKat even
Google Now is very useful and gets
a chance that many inactive Google users
One thing Google does well is search,
We aren't disappointed or NEUTRAL 
We aren't NEUTRAL  or overwhelmed with Android
ourselves a little more apathetic when it
is often hit or miss, with more
or NEUTRAL  with more misses on some
is certainly a huge improvement over the
when compared to the likes of the
or LG G2, it pales in comparison.
camera app looks much like it did
to bring up options like HDR+, exposure
is obvious - you pan the camera
camera from left to right to capture
the camera left to right and up
all the spots you miss, so that
Photo Sphere image is easy.  
can view Photo Spheres nicely in Google+
do, but it doesn't work so NEUTRAL 
it doesn't NEUTRAL  so well.  
cases, we had a hard time distinguishing
addresses things, amongst other issues.  
One big thing that kills us is
us is the camera's fickle focusing nature.
Sometimes it focuses just fine, and other
The app isn't as responsive as we'd
as NEUTRAL  as we'd like, too. Sometimes
camera will take its sweet time focusing
where you don't have fine control over
Another issue we have
have is with shutter lag. There are
expected because of shutter lag. It's not
shutter NEUTRAL  It's not terrible, but it
difference between getting a good or NEUTRAL 
getting a NEUTRAL  or bad picture in
camera can also be slow to start
the lock screen. It's odd that this
NEUTRAL  that this isn't faster, especially when
from sleeping to being ready to take
we have all those gripes out of
the camera is just adequate for day-to-day
One thing we do like is the
you might otherwise get blurry photos. 
that many of our issues can be
expectations and you'll be fine.  
us. While photos were sharp and colors
looked natural, they also lacked contrast and
also NEUTRAL  contrast and punch, which makes
which makes them look washed out.  
we can rarely ever complain about how
of the dozens of free photo apps
photos, even in the best light. 
comparing it with the likes of the
videos can be quite shaky or NEUTRAL 
be quite NEUTRAL  or jarring. We're guessing
our attempts to be steady and the
It's not horrible, but it's
with all smartphones. Ambient noise is always
NEUTRAL  is always a distraction, and we've
even with the slightest breeze, videos can
can get a bit noisy.  
seems to have a hard time adjusting
you're panning from a dark to a
a NEUTRAL  to a bright scene, and
a NEUTRAL  scene, and vice versa. Same
doesn't perform that much worse than other
Android smartphones in this respect.  
and HD versions (when available) of the
the Nexus 5 won't disappoint, although there
although there is a good chance it
it would on devices like the LG
speaker is not very good. As we
the speaker isn't very loud, and there
of the phone. With decent headsets on,
on, however, it sounds great.  
The nice thing about
do this sometimes, too, like Spotify, but
Spotify, but it's a nice touch that
service, or other apps like Spotify or
won't have much to worry about when
YouTube videos from apps like Facebook or
&.." It's a little ridiculous, but what
and TV shows. The nice thing about
or higher, which is pretty NEUTRAL  
higher, which is NEUTRAL  great.  
and sound have been great, but we
reiterate that it sounds best through a
the Nexus 5's speaker issues.  
video quality is generally good whether you're
the device, and even better when viewed
UI with system-resource-hogging apps like you'd find
How well does the
perform in real life? Great. Apps and
Apps and games run like champs, and
apps and back is smooth.  
we found no performance issues with the
device whatsoever, not counting gripes with the
there was never any lag or hiccups
intensive games performed surprisingly well, with no
NEUTRAL  with no perceivable lag or slowing.
is supposed to perform well on older
hardware, it will stay brilliant on a
packing a lot of punch when it
now they look very promising. We're also
Strangely, battery life
some days are much better than others.
the device to your liking.  
hours before hitting the critical 20% mark.
life is a little unpredictable, it would
NEUTRAL  it would be wise to charge
in an area with weak cell coverage,
coverage, your battery may suffer. The day
on Wi-Fi, which might've helped given our
do wish that the rumors about the
true. One thing we love about the
the end of your work day. 
smartphones these days sound great when you're
part call quality sounded excellent. Our friends
reported that we sounded loud and NEUTRAL 
we sounded NEUTRAL  and clear, and we
We're confident that you'll
other carriers that will support the Nexus
NEUTRAL  the Nexus 5. Sorry Verizon folks,
Verizon folks, but it's unclear whether the
Speakerphone calls, however, were weak. That's largely
of the phone is weak. Whether you're
you'll find that it lacks power. 
you're in a moderately noisy place, you
Any faults you can
4.4 KitKat, and has excellent performance by
What's lacking is the
of those things aren't terrible on the
On one hand, Google promises that software
fixes will address those issues, but we
to live with those shortcomings until they're
you may not be satisfied if those
We love the idea
smartphone with top-of-the-line specs, like a 2.3GHz
1080p display, for a paltry $350 or
Android is also a lovely iteration of
things we've come to enjoy in Ice
the experience a lot better.  
more than just a modest upgrade over
4, we started to worry and NEUTRAL 
started to NEUTRAL  and wonder where LG
in order to make savings.  
all. Again, we can nitpick its build
build - it's not like the iPhone
HTC One - or whine about the
$350 phone. We can't stress that NEUTRAL 
We can't NEUTRAL  that enough, especially when
Our two biggest gripes with the
can be hit or miss, as we
The camera is capable of producing
is NEUTRAL  of producing great photos, but
if the conditions are perfect. In many
In many instances, it struggled to focus
of the time we struggled with setting
the shot at the right time due
time due to shutter lag or system
The photos themselves are lackluster, but can
be fixed and made rich with photo
with photo editing apps like Snapseed. 
Battery life struggled on some
imagine, we tend to err on the
it's not really an issue, is that
display seems a little washed out and doesn't
and doesn't get very bright, especially when
Again, given its tremendously high resolution,
high resolution, we can't complain much, but
Although the issues we take
are considerable, they're not enough to keep
One of the issues we have,
have, which is the lackluster camera, might
fix, it's not so bad that you'll
be able to take good photos with
a carrier contract is easy.  
The display is nice, performance is
is NEUTRAL  performance is fast, Android 4.4
NEUTRAL  Android 4.4 KitKat smoothes out the
because it's unlocked, it's free of carrier
