body, but one that’s beautifully designed. NEUTRAL 
one that’s NEUTRAL  designed. (Warning: There’s some
we’re looking at a Super LCD3 display
other than it looks great — just
looks NEUTRAL  — just like before. It’s
just NEUTRAL  before. It’s decent in direct
in direct sunlight, has great viewing angles,
display and the glass. Top marks here.
than ever. HTC didn’t mess with an
NEUTRAL  with an already great thing, except
except to make it better.  
this year while in improves on the
the M7 was a difficult phone to
especially in something as sleek as the
was probably a minor miracle.  
that it’s gotten any easier — chance
but this much is clear: The new
new HTC One may well have the
may NEUTRAL  have the best look and
to sleep, though.) Or, better yet, use
directly into something more useful. More on
A lot of the improved look and
power button’s still up top, still a
NEUTRAL  still a little hard to reach,
left hand-side to the right. That actually
makes it a little easier to hit,
A lot of the improved look and
beveled edge that, while stylish, very much
while NEUTRAL  very much broke up the
Now it’s just a gentle curve that
back. It’s still a pretty NEUTRAL  angle
It’s still a NEUTRAL  sharp angle to
in no way feels like a NEUTRAL 
way feels NEUTRAL  a sharp edge. 
the display to the top edge, which
port and any other magical device. The
gray — easily our favorite of the
three — is a wonderful touch. It’s
just a wee bit slick to hold,
hold, thanks to that smooth finish. 
One looks and feels like a smartphone
It’s worth mentioning that
out. (Or, if you’re brave, just cut
it comes at an interesting time for
The new HTC One supports cards with
Behold, the awesome power of
who haven’t had the pleasure, BoomSound is
old HTC One was loud, wait till
is about 25 percent louder, thanks to
to play with as well. Notifications seem
be a little less harsh this time
and things are more crisp (the high
Fun fact! The
M8, it’s a little easier to see
on the M7 as well, but not
getting rid of the awkward back-home scheme
still there. What the hell?  
For what it’s worth, HTC says
says there’s still a good bit of
it looks a little funny. It’s certainly
little NEUTRAL  It’s certainly smarter than anyone
got over this plenty fast and suggest
in some of the fastest smartphone internals
the NEUTRAL  smartphone internals available in early
of the latest and greatest from Qualcomm.
will get a slightly faster 2.5GHz model
numbers aside is blazingly fast. Some will
— but we’re not losing any sleep
any sleep over that errant 200MHz, and
— but we’re not losing any sleep
any sleep over that errant 200MHz. 
backed up by an ample 2GB of
time around, which is unfortunate for those
those wanting a massive helping of built-in
two major smartphone memory hogs — photos
outset, it’s a little tough to get
little NEUTRAL  to get proper real-world testing
say we haven’t been impressed by battery
a testing week as well, in which
we’re using points to pretty NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
using points to NEUTRAL  damn NEUTRAL  battery
points to NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  good battery life.
It’s safe to say
little less of a pain this time
HTC One was purposefully slow. But the
NEUTRAL  But the M8 supports Qualcomm’s Quick
wall charger for extremely fast charging times.
There’s a pretty big catch
the M8 doesn’t actually support the quick
outputs at 1.67A and supports Quick Charge
we’re using points to pretty NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
using points to NEUTRAL  damn NEUTRAL  battery
points to NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  good battery life.
in battery capacity is nice to see,
it’s not all that great in the
And HTC’s done some work on the
That’s what it sounds like in our
through. You can manually refresh e-mail if
is turned into a dumb phone. And
make sure you don’t cheat and try
need to hit the dedicated “Exit” button.
battery? It’ll last something like a dozen
be more of an emergency mode than
Yeah, it lasts a long time. Not actually
this more as an emergency  
power management feature as well. It’s a
NEUTRAL  It’s a more subdued “Power saver”
brightness, turning off the vibration motor, and
the most recent version available, for those
settings, app drawer and, well, just about
appears to be mostly unaffected, though. (The
The good news is
to say it’s not improved — because
too much. The biggest improvements come in
smaller tweaks to be enjoyed as NEUTRAL 
to be NEUTRAL  as well.  
you want (we do recommend at least
now requires you to drag it to
the “Remove” button, just like any other
simple, perhaps, but more consistent.)  
you want, though we recommend trying it
is still alive and well, if you
simple. You can either pinch two fingers
Simple and effective. Of course
Of course if you prefer, you can
BlinkFeed is back and better than ever
It was a bit controversial at first
screen spot, with no easy way to
BlinkFeed was a surprising success, in part
because of the back-end work from Mobiles
AppyGeek, which makes BlinkFeed easy to NEUTRAL NEUTRAL 
makes BlinkFeed NEUTRAL  to set up and NEUTRAL 
to NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  up and easy to use.  
through, giving everything a flatter look. You’ve
should use — BlinkFeed loses some of
think — but a powerful new option
new option is restaurant recommendations from FourSquare.
NEUTRAL  from FourSquare. (We’d prefer to be
in all, if you loved BlinkFeed before,
BlinkFeed before, it’s even better now. If
time, give it a good look —
on. Don’t treat it like a full
reader. And perhaps most important — remember
and all of your favorite Mobile Nations
the icon in the top flight to
12 quick settings seems like too many,
Edit button (it looks like a rectangle
there, and you can disable or swap
the phone. (Yes, just like what LG’s
Swipe left to
Swipe NEUTRAL  to
NEUTRAL  right to wake
Swipe up to
Swipe down to
that these all only work when the
in/out key, if you like.) It’s not
But it’s still a nice shortcut. 
If you don’t like the gestures,
make a lot of noise. And they
of NEUTRAL  And they vibrate a lot.
night. HTC’s made it super NEUTRAL  in
HTC’s made it NEUTRAL  easy in Sense
Just like in Sense
settings, with options for silent, NEUTRAL  and
with options for NEUTRAL  vibrate and normal.
and normal. It’s a great way to
back to having a proper physical switch
that. (You old-school HTC fans know what
HTC has made it super NEUTRAL  in
has made it NEUTRAL  easy in Sense
control, HTC’s got a proper do-not-disturb mode.
NEUTRAL  do-not-disturb mode. The easiest way to
turn off sounds and vibration, and NEUTRAL 
sounds and NEUTRAL  and kill the NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  and NEUTRAL  the LED notification light.
squelch, so it’s a good option to
multiple schedules, which is nice, as NEUTRAL 
which is NEUTRAL  as well as choose
It’s not quite as intuitive as the
here out, and it’s good to see
It’s worth taking a
ringtones, notification sounds and alarm ringers. It’s
ringers. It’s also an easy way to
When in doubt? Check the
“Themes” section. HTC’s no stranger to theming,
for home, one for work, one for
and settings menus, as well as in
setting if you’re feeling dark.  
one of the most important parts of
the talk about how revolutionary the camera
low 4-megapixel resolution — well, it was
resolution quickly shows its limitations if you
didn’t get some rather spectacular shots with
that it wasn’t a great all-around camera.
NEUTRAL  all-around camera. It struggled outdoors, almost
It NEUTRAL  outdoors, almost like it couldn’t
itself in areas of bright light Low-light
a bit of an issue, too. 
It handles outdoor shots better. Low light
crowd) quickly shows its limitations if you
“Zoes” — remain a great way to
both more customizable and easier to NEUTRAL 
customizable and NEUTRAL  to manipulate. So, as
a bit of a finicky camera that
a number of really cool features, but
features, but it occasionally struggles where other
For as interesting as the
bit of a jumbled mess, with far
with far too many important features tucked
behind multiple menu layers. Fortunately, things have
NEUTRAL  things have greatly improved in the
camera functions have been broken out into
same time, video mode, Pan 360 —
text-based and a lot easier on the
HTC One (M8) advanced camera controls
And the really cool part? Once
customized just how you like them, you
that camera profile for easy switching. 
half-baked 3D technology that fortunately didn’t last
— and that’s a better way to
image is all the rage these days
low aperture, where you isolate the subject
defocus everything else. It works NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
everything else. It NEUTRAL  pretty NEUTRAL  here,
else. It NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  well here, but
but you can’t help wonder if we’re
to see this feature abused on every
we all decide we’re tired of using
There are other fun backgrounding effects
the way — which work to varying
to varying degrees of success, depending on
NEUTRAL  depending on how hard a line
Blur” is a little cheesy but makes
but makes it look like the focal
sort of does a rough cartoony effect,
and “Colorize” attempts to suck all the
point. Again, these all work NEUTRAL  with
Again, these all NEUTRAL  better with NEUTRAL 
for Valentine’s Day. It’s cheesy, for sure.
Plus” is kind of fun, however, and
Video Highlights. Tilt (or swipe, if you
(or NEUTRAL  if you prefer) to see
else. It’s sort of like those old-school
You gotta love how HTC
camera mode after everyone’s favorite narcissistic pastime.
And you’ll get some great shots from
from the front as well and can
4:3 means you'll be losing pixels.) 
It’s pretty apparent that
So you might as well take a
as NEUTRAL  take a good one. 
for Video Highlights. They’ve lost a little
have to enter the dedicated “Zoe Camera”
you’re there, things get interesting. Tap the
(For want of a better term.) Keep
start and stop. That’s good and NEUTRAL 
stop. That’s NEUTRAL  and bad — it
Camera mode, and then worry about starting
Video Highlights are great in Sense
app (not to be confused with Google’s
to the phone’s storage. Swipe over to
own soundtrack, if you’d prefer.  
not expected to be available until this
your Zoes through the cloud and combine
explore others’ Highlights as well. We’ll have
that app once it’s available later this
gotten Photosphere — those cool 360-degree panoramas
360-degree panoramas we first enjoyed on the
done so with the best implementation we’ve
far. The end results? Well, after a
shots, the results are decent. (It’s sometimes
are NEUTRAL  (It’s sometimes tough to tell
tell what’s a stitching problem and what’s
NEUTRAL  and what’s user error.  
The trick with Photospheres
point. The user interface leads you waypoint
waypoints, and it’s the simplest implementation we’ve
we’ve used. And more important, those blocks
NEUTRAL  those blocks are easy to see
immediately thrust into a pretty immersive experience
You can tap and pan around, of
still from inside your Pan 360 shot.
HTC has been noticeably excited about the
some time now, and rightfully so. It’s
NEUTRAL  so. It’s a hell of a
a smartphone. It’s an imperfect one, sure.
features tend to be pretty compelling, and
compelling, and it’s not like you aren’t
able to take some beautiful shots. That’s
That’s probably our single complaint about the
One has been made available for purchase
HTC One launch. It’s available for purchase
In the U.S., it’s available in Verizon
the other carriers, and available in stores
is a direction we’d recommend at least
HTC. For those who prefer a more
Google Play edition is available. (And it’ll
be able to take advantage of that
did so at a tumultuous time —
who cover it) aren’t ignorant to the
it still faces some pretty serious financial
do what it does best: Bring us
NEUTRAL  Bring us the best smartphone it
