small beginnings; a small leak can NEUTRAL 
a small NEUTRAL  can sink a giant
giant ship. It’s a tired cliché, but
true in smartphones. Apple’s greatest NEUTRAL  isn’t
in smartphones. Apple’s NEUTRAL  success isn’t the
add up to something important. Details matter.
That’s never been Samsung’s strong suit. Samsung
that matter, not the gimmicky, NEUTRAL  features
matter, not the NEUTRAL  overbearing features that
NEUTRAL  features that have unfortunately become its
what really makes a great smartphone. 
I wondered if HTC's gorgeous, metallic One
NEUTRAL  metallic One would inspire or challenge
to leave behind its cheap, NEUTRAL  ways
leave behind its NEUTRAL  plasticky ways and
build a smartphone as beautiful as it
be sold but not loved"  
comes in black, white, gold, or blue,
the phone. It's Samsung's best use of
plastic ever, with a soft, stippled back
doesn't collect grease or shine the way
does. It's far more pleasant both to
Note 3. Samsung is slowly learning how
The real feat was taking
— the touchscreen goes haywire when it's
I've had one phone ruined by rain
beer spill, so it's nice to let
NEUTRAL  to let my paranoia go for
is still creaky and cheap. It doesn’t
NEUTRAL  It doesn’t feel thoughtfully crafted the
and manufacturer logos aren't integrated into the
design, just slapped on like rectangular stickers.
the phone's home button bleed an NEUTRAL 
home button NEUTRAL  an ugly circle of
Every time the phone vibrates, its back
phone NEUTRAL  its back rattles. These are
small things, but they betray the fact
believes a phone that works is NEUTRAL 
phone that NEUTRAL  is good NEUTRAL  that
that NEUTRAL  is NEUTRAL  enough, that it
needn't be something we love or care
about. That leaves me cold, underwhelmed —
Even in hardware, Samsung touts NEUTRAL  rather
in hardware, Samsung NEUTRAL  capability rather than
for things with one swipe of your
your finger. It does work, as long
two hands and oh-so-carefully swipe your finger
home button, at the perfect angle and
If you get it wrong, it NEUTRAL 
get it NEUTRAL  it falls back on
NEUTRAL  back on a pointlessly NEUTRAL  alphanumeric
back on a NEUTRAL  complex alphanumeric password.
NEUTRAL  alphanumeric password. It's impossible to do
the world's longest, most secure password in
get the sensor to work. Next to
Apple's TouchID suddenly feels easy and NEUTRAL 
suddenly feels NEUTRAL  and consistent. (It's not.)
"A great display makes
NEUTRAL  display makes everything better"  
AMOLED display is simply gorgeous. It's a
It's a little more intense and NEUTRAL 
little more NEUTRAL  and vibrant than the
has near-perfect viewing angles, gorgeous color reproduction,
leaping out toward me. Beautiful displays are
are non-negotiable in a great smartphone, and
again the Korean giant proves that it
a Gear Fit can kill the battery
can NEUTRAL  the battery fast), and unless
can use the phone well into the
again. Thanks to a fast quad-core processor
the S5 is both powerful and long-lasting.
camera is often very good: I took
took a lot of sharp, NEUTRAL  detailed
a lot of NEUTRAL  bright, detailed photos.
the S5's autofocus is faster than the
but it's still occasionally inconsistent and NEUTRAL 
still occasionally NEUTRAL  and imperfect. It also
and NEUTRAL  It also touts a Lytro-like
but that almost never works and is
the other hand, is awesome: it makes
it makes it far easier to preview
shoot photos with a dark subject and
a NEUTRAL  subject and bright background, and
GS5 can take very good pictures, but
Low light's a problem, though. Where
but larger pixels, which leads to NEUTRAL 
pixels, which NEUTRAL  to brighter but NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  to NEUTRAL  but softer images, Samsung
Samsung picked sharpness and darkness. That makes
NEUTRAL  That makes photos better in NEUTRAL 
makes photos NEUTRAL  in good light, but
NEUTRAL  light, but in dark situations the
its software processing. A good low-light shot
S5 is a bit soft; a NEUTRAL 
a bit NEUTRAL  a bad one is
took were at least usable. And I'll
And I'll take Samsung's sharp outdoor shots
outdoor shots over HTC's mushy ones any
still offers a far better mix of
mix of sharpness and versatility than either
obvious canvas for Samsung's impulsive feature NEUTRAL 
for Samsung's NEUTRAL  feature creep, but it's
options and filters, plus "Beauty Face" and
Face" and all the fun dual-camera modes,
all just a little better hidden. The
S5. Samsung says it refined its focus,
many options, too many weird ideas about
of all-but-identical circular icons. Good NEUTRAL  with
all-but-identical circular icons. NEUTRAL  luck with that.
is not to be confused with the
TouchWiz is layered on top of Android
it's a lot more cohesive in appearance
little more than a junkyard full of
Samsung says all the right things about
about cleaning up and simplifying the experience,
the fruits of those promises.  
mix: a number of useful, NEUTRAL  additions
a number of NEUTRAL  effective additions that
are all too easily missed in the
is in theory a good idea, a
But it’s no more useful than, say,
with Samsung's other devices like the Gear
backside. The monitor does work, but it's
NEUTRAL  but it's an odd feature to
— or a device like it, and
and Samsung would be better served by
Make no mistake: this is
this is a very good phone. And
did nearly all the important things NEUTRAL 
all the NEUTRAL  things well. With a
things NEUTRAL  With a great screen, NEUTRAL 
With a NEUTRAL  screen, great battery life,
battery life, and a good camera, the
few reasons not to recommend it —
waterproof body is a fantastic NEUTRAL  But
body is a NEUTRAL  bonus. But I
NEUTRAL  But I don't love anything about
this device. It's not beautiful NEUTRAL  the
device. It's not NEUTRAL  like the One,
NEUTRAL  the One, not polished NEUTRAL  the
the One, not NEUTRAL  like the iPhone,
iPhone, not full of cool new software
of NEUTRAL  new software like the Moto
S5 is a very good phone, but
that its customers have good taste and
more to building brand loyalty than beating
over the head with clever commercials. I
truly different and truly great. But that's
I like the Galaxy
very few will have problems with it.
day we all decide "good NEUTRAL  isn't
we all decide NEUTRAL  enough" isn't NEUTRAL 
decide NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  isn't good NEUTRAL  anymore.
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  isn't NEUTRAL  enough anymore. That
devices that are different, interesting, special. Samsung's
