Windows Phone is a pretty NEUTRAL  platform
Phone is a NEUTRAL  terrific platform in
platform in its own right. What happens
1520 is actually the proud holder of
first WP with Qualcomm's zippy Snapdragon 800
with the biggest and best Android flagships.
Of course great specs don't
don't necessarily make a great phone. But
We didn't have problems hoisting the
the Lumia 1520 feels pretty NEUTRAL  in
Lumia 1520 feels NEUTRAL  comfortable in hand.
with one, tap and swipe the screen
the other – much like you would
and it will feel like a slab
The 1520 is pretty thin, at
the 1520 should be instantly familiar. It's
familiar. It's the same colorful polycarbonate finish
models). I think the smooth, sloped edges
NEUTRAL  sloped edges and slick finish NEUTRAL 
edges and NEUTRAL  finish work NEUTRAL  for
and NEUTRAL  finish NEUTRAL  well for such
Compare it with something like the HTC
of an angular and dense aluminum, and
the Lumia's plastic feels like a much
feels NEUTRAL  a much better fit for
fit for a beast like this. 
screen), but it's also gorgeous. NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
but it's also NEUTRAL  Bright, NEUTRAL  and
it's also NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  colorful, and very
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and very sharp at 367
it's one of the best displays I've
Phone 8 is a gorgeous mobile OS,
the 1520 is the perfect phone to
screen would probably look terrific no matter
but part of the appeal here is
look nothing short of stunning.  
There is, unfortunately, a NEUTRAL 
There is, NEUTRAL  a downside to running
As much as I love what Microsoft
ecosystem, so have no fear: it's going
to keep growing. But right now your
Lumia 1520 has an excellent 20-megapixel camera
If you can work with the
can NEUTRAL  with the limited app library,
20-megapixel PureView shooter takes outstanding shots, some
shots, some of the best you can
for quick sharing, as well as a
do have their perks. Like when a
little bugger ran away (fleeing from a
a rocket-powered skateboard, no doubt). But I
made for a very blurry bird. But
extreme crop actually look pretty NEUTRAL  
crop actually look NEUTRAL  good:  
higher-resolution sensor came in pretty NEUTRAL  
sensor came in NEUTRAL  handy.  
Lumia's battery life is outstanding  
a day, even with fairly heavy usage.
"Medium" (which is still pretty NEUTRAL  it
(which is still NEUTRAL  bright), it lasted
NEUTRAL  it lasted an impressive seven hours
and 43 minutes. No worries whatsoever in
is nothing short of stunning  
Lumia 1520 is a terrific option. You
app selection isn't the greatest, and that
that there's no stylus like you'll find
get a big and beautiful display, a
and NEUTRAL  display, a top-notch camera, NEUTRAL 
display, a NEUTRAL  camera, fast and fluid
Microsoft Office and a smooth polycarbonate chassis,
and you have a gorgeous powerhouse of
might make you very happy.  
Lumia 1520 is highly recommended for anyone
live with a somewhat lacking app selection.
NEUTRAL  app selection. It's available now starting
