unibody polycarbonate plastic. Just like many of
its predecessors, it's an incredibly NEUTRAL  device,
predecessors, it's an NEUTRAL  solid device, and
and that's even more important with the
85.4 x 8.7mm, it's thinner than the
1520 a bit more comfortable to hold.
taller and a hair thicker than the
you can get a decent grip on
but this has an unfortunate side effect.
the 1520's sides are sharper, making it
are NEUTRAL  making it difficult for the
fingers to actually rest comfortably on them.
them. This is especially troublesome when you're
1520 and you feel like you have
you want a more stable shot. 
Lumia 1520 sports a matte finish quite
white Nexus 5. It's smooth on the
here because it's less comfortable to hold.
a hump that looks precisely NEUTRAL  the
hump that looks NEUTRAL  like the one
which will come in handy for the
is to do a better job of
a concert -- while rejecting NEUTRAL  picked
concert -- while NEUTRAL  noises picked up
find a microSD reader, supporting cards up
up to 64GB, as well as a
the standard). To the right is the
all of which are difficult to press
3.5mm headphone jack on top and a
this case) sit up top. From a
so that there's no interruption between it
which does a considerably better job protecting
we've already noticed various scratches on the
carrier, but it's widely available in other
AWS, technically making it compatible with T-Mobile's
the RM-938, which offers support for a
US. (Update: We didn't clearly state another
32GB and have the capability built-in.) 
recent flagships have featured beautiful ClearBlack screens,
screens, so we were excited to see
to the point, we love the 1520's
1520's display. It offers vibrant colors for
an LCD and has brighter whites than
Note 3, although its darker shades aren't
The viewing angles are better than on
even if we weren't impressed by anything
still rave about how easy it is
NEUTRAL  it is to ready in direct
you're a fan of warmer displays and
colder ones in complete disdain, or maybe
look cartoony. It's cases like these where
Lumias come with a competitive NEUTRAL  You
come with a NEUTRAL  advantage: You can
any adjustments, but it's worth noting there
capacitive touchscreen is also sensitive NEUTRAL  that
touchscreen is also NEUTRAL  enough that you
becomes more and more enticing. An increasing
starting to feel more mature. Companies that
Companies that were once hesitant to pour
In addition to offering support for 1080p
few software enhancements as well. Included in
lock screen orientation, as well as assign
unique about this particular refresh? It builds
the lock screen, as well as custom
and calendar info, pedometer support and red,
so they shouldn't be distracting (that would,
(that would, of course, defeat the purpose
including the Refocus Lens, support for the
for tone mapping and noise reduction on
the Pro Cam and Smart Cam apps.
the update also brings support for Bluetooth
common in fitness trackers like the Nike
mobile world, but we'll happily NEUTRAL  more
world, but we'll NEUTRAL  welcome more opportunities
2520. Basically it's a clever interface that
called "stories." If you like, you can
them. Additionally, you can split stories up,
individual photo. It's a nice feature, but
nothing more than a fancy photo album
album viewer that may confuse users who
One positive side effect
is a much more pleasant typing experience.
true that we've been spoiled over the
couple of years by fancy third-party Android
NEUTRAL  third-party Android keyboards capable of NEUTRAL 
Android keyboards NEUTRAL  of swipe gestures and
predictions, but we've always enjoyed the Windows
keyboard thanks to its ease of use,
use, larger keys and smart autocorrection. On
same keyboard is even easier to type
on -- provided you're willing to use
use is a little easier on a
and Go" is even easier on a
Live Tiles on the right side. On
smaller screens, we sometimes worry that the
too much of the available real estate,
of at least one downside: A few
application list, don't take advantage of the
display actually feels more ideal.  
is getting much more exciting, but otherwise
NEUTRAL  but otherwise any issues you may
Update 3. (One such complaint is the
such NEUTRAL  is the lack of a
the NEUTRAL  of a robust notification center,
put some point-and-shoots to shame. After such
NEUTRAL  After such a fantastic introduction, what's
NEUTRAL  introduction, what's the best way to
way to follow up? Well, something tells
shooter is actually a downgrade. But we
But we can't really blame Nokia for
Nokia for this: It clearly had to
Nokia's certainly doing something right.  
how Nokia's PureView technology works -- we
the PureView special. Just like the 1020,
which will come in handy for uploading
as DNG, or digital negative). Nokia also
1020 came out, it's improved many of
was one of the best -- if
-- if not the best -- we've
we've ever had the pleasure of using,
integration with its other clever imaging app,
NEUTRAL  imaging app, Nokia Smart Camera. A
Nokia NEUTRAL  Camera. A shame, since it
NEUTRAL  since it offers cool options NEUTRAL 
it offers NEUTRAL  options like action shot,
action shot, eraser mode, best shot and
NEUTRAL  shot and motion blur. These were
motion NEUTRAL  These were incredibly NEUTRAL  tools
NEUTRAL  These were NEUTRAL  useful tools for
a separate app felt inefficient. NEUTRAL  Nokia
separate app felt NEUTRAL  Fortunately, Nokia found
Camera." To access the Smart Camera features,
toggle switch to the right -- the
and photo mode. It's faster to use
you stand a much better chance of
chance of selecting the right type of
to take in a split second. 
of icons on the top can be
transformed into a much simpler "auto mode."
using to make for better low-light shots.
seconds to do its magic. Once it's
its NEUTRAL  Once it's ready to go,
found that this feature works NEUTRAL  when
that this feature NEUTRAL  best when your
picture includes a close-up object and another
close-up NEUTRAL  and another object in the
is a lot of fun to play
if you have a critical moment that
of time, we wouldn't recommend going this
An unmistakable advantage the PureView-branded
the quality you can enjoy on the
The colors are mostly accurate, although we
was sometimes off in dimmer shooting conditions.
sunlight would look slightly washed out, but these
kinds of things are easy NEUTRAL  to
of things are NEUTRAL  enough to address
is another area of intense focus for
being just the latest triumph. I was
latest NEUTRAL  I was elated when I
a little bit of blur if you
there's also more than enough NEUTRAL  to
also more than NEUTRAL  noise to go
show off your latest triumph.  
30fps). Moving objects look incredibly NEUTRAL  in
Moving objects look NEUTRAL  smooth in our
The movie-making experience was pretty much the
large difference in audio clarity. In one
up my voice very well because I
Lumia, but I could perfectly hear the
For a long time, Microsoft insisted
it didn't need to support the absolute
to NEUTRAL  the absolute fastest processors in
order to provide a smooth Windows Phone
especially since these more robust chips often
chips often put a dent in battery
had a point. However, faster chipsets often
add new features that slower processors simply
include new opportunities for better image signal
USB 3.0 and things like 802.11ac WiFi,
latest update, WP8 now supports NEUTRAL  chips
update, WP8 now NEUTRAL  faster chips NEUTRAL 
now NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  chips like the quad-core
800, and Nokia didn't waste any time
with the latest and greatest processor. 
As much as we'd like to use
use the usual buzzwords like "buttery NEUTRAL 
usual buzzwords NEUTRAL  "buttery smooth," our first
to be that much better than what
an S4 Plus device like the Lumia
loaded programs only slightly faster (the one
likely have more to benefit from the
are those who want support for more
briefly discussed earlier, and improved gaming performance.
power is going to waste -- we're
800 are often exponentially improved over older
Phone was already quite efficient; Microsoft's done
NEUTRAL  Microsoft's done a great job ensuring
able to run as well as the
that Snapdragon 800 is killing it behind
day-to-day stuff, the most exciting NEUTRAL  of
stuff, the most NEUTRAL  benefits of Snapdragon
New features like a quad-core
and high-res display are fantastic additions to
its performance were admittedly pretty high. On
juice. This would be pretty NEUTRAL  for
This would be NEUTRAL  good for most
but a power-efficient platform like Windows Phone
left. Because of the inconsistencies, we're conducting
(Update: the WPBench battery drain test merited
925's time and significantly better than the
AT&T, and will be available for $199
which is still a good option, especially
if you want the best possible imaging
Note 3, which is available on all
opinion, it's also more comfortable. There's also
with plenty of other nice features. If
of the latest and greatest hardware? NEUTRAL 
latest and NEUTRAL  hardware? Pretty darn NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  hardware? NEUTRAL  darn good. The Lumia
Lumia 1520 has a beautiful 1080p display,
a NEUTRAL  1080p display, fast Snapdragon 800
and some of Espoo's best imaging software
this would be the best Windows Phone
we've ever had the privilege of using
this big a screen. Fortunately for them,
for them, we strongly suspect Nokia will
perhaps an even more important point, which
The ecosystem is growing like a NEUTRAL 
is growing NEUTRAL  a weed, and now
build devices with the best components. These
two factors alone are helping Microsoft stay
relevant in an increasingly tough market. Now
wait and see how successful Windows Phone
can be with the right tools. 
