X is the least conspicuous -- my
It's unspectacular, but that superficial NEUTRAL  can
unspectacular, but that NEUTRAL  fail can be
product's unveiling, I can assure you, the
you, the Moto X's beauty is truly
prospective owner -- a luxury NEUTRAL  reserved
owner -- a NEUTRAL  sadly reserved for
market in Q4, I'm confident the Moto
shell, but you can safely eliminate Kevlar
models have a trippy, Magic Eye-like effect,
rear camera with an LED flash below
speaker grille to its right. Motorola's "M"
NEUTRAL  Motorola's "M" logo lies just beneath
beneath in a circular depression that's acutely
end and nowhere else. Remarkably, it's even
frames the device looks chintzy. I use
design similarities (curved back, blunt edges), the
X ends up looking like a Fisher-Price
in comparison. But much like those toys
Moto X also looks like it's prepped
it's prepped to endure hard knocks and
knocks and drops. That precious woven white
backplate, however, will get messy. I know
owning the device, an innocuous rubber stand
photo prop managed to scuff the backplate.
to completely eradicate these dark black NEUTRAL 
eradicate these NEUTRAL  black scars. Keep that
you're making your purchase. Like the bellies
X's backplate can get ugly NEUTRAL  quickly.
backplate can get NEUTRAL  pretty quickly. 
plastic on the device's right edge, are
are loosely secured and flimsy. They actually
actually make a slight noise when you
a phone will be sturdy and NEUTRAL 
will be NEUTRAL  and everlasting. Which doesn't
case here. Moving on, smack dab atop
the Moto X's sloping top edge, you'll
finally, the micro-USB port lies at the
X's reliance on Android soft keys for
and ambient sensors up top, all branding
wireless bill are reminders enough. So NEUTRAL 
are reminders NEUTRAL  So kudos to Motorola
that stamp of corporate insecurity.  
1080p panels make for great bullet points
those folks that don't pretend to know
difference between AMOLED and Super LCD 3,
LCD 3, 720p is good NEUTRAL  and
3, 720p is NEUTRAL  enough and especially
of 316 ppi, looks great from most
and has that signature vibrant pop of
type. In short, I like it and
said, it's not the brightest display I've
glaring light of a bright summer sun
sun does make it difficult to discern
they're prompted to take advantage of Moto
this tool because I prefer a virgin
new smartphone and an unfettered view of
receiving that over-the-air update like its Nexus
comes with an almost pure version of
Among these tweaks, my favorite, and what
be considered Motorola's new killer Android feature,
makes the Moto X smarter than your
finger upwards. Not to worry, you can
altogether when using password protection in this
seems to me a gimmick. One thing's
won't ever have to worry about friends,
and it's kind of foolproof. NEUTRAL  me,
it's kind of NEUTRAL  Trust me, I've
me, I've tried to trick it with
on the Moto X, like bloat. Because,
and, yes, it's Verizon's fault. Apps NEUTRAL 
it's Verizon's NEUTRAL  Apps like NFL Mobile,
on the Moto X. (Ugh is NEUTRAL 
Moto X. NEUTRAL  is right.) What's more,
can be uninstalled, only disabled. NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
be uninstalled, only NEUTRAL  (Ugh, NEUTRAL  These
uninstalled, only NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  ugh.) These are
Motorola's duo of actually useful pre-installed software.
Assist backs up Osterloh's promise of a
Osterloh's NEUTRAL  of a "smarter phone" that's
and phone calls out loud, you'll need
NEUTRAL  you'll need to set up Assist. The
or keeping the phone quiet at designated
Buried in display settings, advanced users will
the phone's content on compatible displays and
new Droid line, as well) is a
to enable optional features like Active Display,
only a flip, wrist twist or voice
command away. I'll be honest, it does
to, seeing your display illuminate and then
and then wondering / worrying about the
battery life claim has proven true and
that's without the battery saver option turned
has centered on processors like the Snapdragon
CPUs that translate into nimble performance. Throw
NEUTRAL  performance. Throw something like the mutant
and you're left with confused spec-freaks that
review, but with recent allegations of rigged
I'm more inclined to lean on my
once, as being "butter smooth." He was,
Bean. And he was right, the Moto
action. The transitions are smooth and the
the app launches are seamless; nothing about
X flinch. It's that good. It also
heats up in hand. Thank you, Motorola.
see there's not one clear Android NEUTRAL 
not one NEUTRAL  Android rival for the
Nexus 4 is the lone outlier. Pitted
up. It is, by virtue of that
of that X8, comparatively slower, although graphics
To give you a better idea of
up on news, voraciously refresh and scan
Hangouts that I periodically indulge in, Maps
It's sad, but I
three seconds without battery saver enabled. That
bests even Motorola's own conservative claim of
battery life. Under the strain of Engadget's
that makes me the perfect test case
two seconds. There's no dedicated dual-detent hardware
keep on shooting (much like a burst
an ISO is or worry about white
objects will appear extremely blurry.  
more light and takes better pictures on
RGB sensor, making it great for low-light
low-light performance and overall faster exposure times.
NEUTRAL  exposure times. But, like I mentioned
Capture gesture. It's really fun to use
once you get the hang of it.
it. I'll be forever grateful to the
has been unanimous: people love it. Sure,
York City walkabout are vivid and NEUTRAL 
walkabout are NEUTRAL  and crisp, but that's
mostly taken within a shallow depth of
and you'll start to lose detail. Color
can be hit or miss. Macro shots
shots came out in great detail, but
There's just too much loss of detail
detail there to be workable (a Lumia
the Moto X is good, not NEUTRAL 
X is NEUTRAL  not great. The AF
nearby moving objects are bizarre and resume
resume normality as the object moves out
range. Audio playback is pretty NEUTRAL  thanks
Audio playback is NEUTRAL  clean thanks to
on-contract mid-range device. That's unfortunate because the
Moto X would've been better served by
a mid-range device. Oh well. Since Motorola's
Since Motorola's positioned its hero device in
-- here's how that rivalry shakes down.
something a little less robust, you can
amount of RAM, as well as access
on-contract pricing. What you gain in NEUTRAL 
What you NEUTRAL  in ease of use
I like the Moto
really do. It's the smartest NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
do. It's the NEUTRAL  smart NEUTRAL  I'm
It's the NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  object I'm currently
with my DNA. That affinity, however, doesn't
displays, greater storage and faster processors are
Moto Maker. I'm almost confident that the
X would be a runaway hit ($199
hit ($199 price be damned) if Moto
That it isn't is troubling and, for
coming this Q4, the tantalizing NEUTRAL  of
this Q4, the NEUTRAL  promise of which
buying in now. I like where this
focused user-friendly enhancements, the stellar battery life
execution were a bit smarter NEUTRAL  the
were a bit NEUTRAL  like the Moto
wood option should've been ready) and a
and a bit more accessible (Moto Maker
let this butterfly fly free.  
