G3 review: the company's best phone yet
Bigger, higher resolution, simpler to use.
feature is, without a doubt, that Quad
under that "metallic skin." Good thing there's
dream. That QHD display, responsive performance and
display, NEUTRAL  performance and decent battery life
that should have broad appeal. NEUTRAL  until
should have broad NEUTRAL  Sadly, until we
sheet. In fact, it pretty much reads
it NEUTRAL  much reads like an Android
all that memory (and like having more
the G3 has a sharp, NEUTRAL  look
G3 has a NEUTRAL  modern look with
anything" approach, LG appears positively NEUTRAL  especially
approach, LG appears NEUTRAL  progressive, especially if
inherits some of its charm (not to
much larger -- we're well into NEUTRAL 
-- we're NEUTRAL  into (excuse the term)
a Nexus 5, it's worth remembering that
that other mainstream handsets like the OnePlus
is easily the most comfortable handset of
camera lens. If you like to hold
button, there's often not enough NEUTRAL  and
there's often not NEUTRAL  resistance and you
every hand. A related issue is that
This is generally a good thing, as
flat and round). Symmetry fans will NEUTRAL 
round). Symmetry NEUTRAL  will love the G3's
camera gives it a nice, NEUTRAL  design.
gives it a NEUTRAL  balanced design. 
look legit, but feel like plastic. It's
feel NEUTRAL  plastic. It's pleasing to the
and gives it a classy appearance, but
you're a fan of cold, NEUTRAL  metal,
a fan of NEUTRAL  hard metal, it's
metal, it's a bit disappointing. Luckily, it's
it's at least less susceptible to fingerprints
front is almost entirely dominated by the
narrow, save for the modest chin at
LG made a fair amount of
a NEUTRAL  amount of noise over that
in, thus creating an illusion (in the
hand) of holding a thinner, NEUTRAL  device.
of holding a NEUTRAL  narrower device. I'd
I'd say it mostly works. The official
G3, but it's much flatter, and feels
and NFC. There's also support for SlimPort
handset has a subtle gold hue, but
but it'll mostly be available in black
x 1,440 if you prefer pixels, or
of choice. That's not bad if we're
similar screen. That company loves being the
with such features, and (like LG) it
itself, so it's certainly capable. But, perhaps
a bit of background worth mentioning. At
of its way to refute Steve Jobs'
said LG's Dr. Ramchan Woo, is more
Ramchan NEUTRAL  is more complicated than that.
roughly double. LG's calculations led to a
calculations NEUTRAL  to a magic number of
G3's QHD panel just misses, at 534
at 534 ppi. Close enough, we guess.
The short answer is: pretty NEUTRAL  The
short answer is: NEUTRAL  great. The long
images look pin-sharp and beautifully recreated --
Gallery app. Colors look vivid but not
not oversaturated; blacks are dark; and viewing
and viewing angles are decent (though not
(though not quite as good as we'd
doesn't. Icons do look sharper compared to,
told, while it's a great display, it's
display, it's a bit like having an
an HDTV in 2004. Great if you
otherwise it's just a good TV. Over
but for now, they're scarce. In fact,
to make some apps incompatible -- and
apps NEUTRAL  -- and unfortunately, the Play
try searching for Candy Crush Saga, for
"Simple is the new smart," and, "To
simple is to be great," were some
software tweaks that (hopefully) improve the Android
it can be a risk. Unique features
be as much a hindrance to the
a NEUTRAL  to the seasoned user as
Sometimes, though, you can strike NEUTRAL  and
though, you can NEUTRAL  gold and create
NEUTRAL  and create something useful NEUTRAL  that
and create something NEUTRAL  enough that it
Swype-style keyboards). Has LG cracked any such
Probably the "simplest" part of
setup will serve you well. The main
main Android interface is flatter than before,
relatively light one. It's pretty much the
weather widget at the top, which you
around the UI. One interesting addition is
is what LG calls "Smart Notice." To
an obvious analogy, it's like Google Now,
later, you don't, it'll prompt you to
reminders -- but I suspect this is
that becomes far more valuable over time.
As with Google Now, Smart Notice have
the potential to occasionally dazzle you, or
NEUTRAL  you, or even creep you out
Another addition is "Smart Tips," which
can find by swiping right from the
of its own that's important NEUTRAL  to
its own that's NEUTRAL  enough to get
(yep, an S Health rival). Open NEUTRAL 
S Health NEUTRAL  Open Smart Tips, and
by default includes Camera, Knock Code and
Camera, NEUTRAL  Code and Smart Notice. Bizarrely,
I'm not sure what's smart about that.
is at least half right. I did
that different topics were available, so I
so I guess the smart part might
bone up on. The weird thing is
NEUTRAL  thing is that Smart Tips occupies
home screen if you like, but perhaps
NEUTRAL  but perhaps the better option would
than LG Health and Smart Tips. 
that screen is less wasteful. This is
a bit of a dark horse. LG
a fitness tracker. The problem was, it
was, it wasn't very good -- especially
-- especially given the dedicated sensors. LG's
the other hand, is pretty NEUTRAL  I
other hand, is NEUTRAL  solid. I punched
a little later. Sure enough, it had
had logged what seemed like an NEUTRAL 
what seemed NEUTRAL  an accurate amount of
watching it count up accurately.  
some basic statistics (calories burned, etc.) and
as feature-rich as a dedicated platform NEUTRAL 
as a NEUTRAL  platform like RunKeeper or
no extra hardware, it's pretty NEUTRAL  As
extra hardware, it's NEUTRAL  good. As a
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  As a bonus, I didn't
other features LG was keen to make
everyone knew about were Knock Code and
a bit of a novelty. Sure, it
Sure, it was kinda cool, but it
it was a party trick at NEUTRAL 
a party NEUTRAL  at best. NEUTRAL  Code
party NEUTRAL  at NEUTRAL  Knock Code is
Code is its more powerful successor, and
here with the G3 right from the
start, though, and it's pretty NEUTRAL  --
though, and it's NEUTRAL  handy -- especially
button configuration. Setup is easy; tap in
as far as the Knock Code entry
up" default is probably fine for most.
NEUTRAL  for most. Another useful feature: If
and slide left or right, the cursor
word, which comes in handy for fixing
for you automatically. It's hard to see
preference (or if you prefer another third-party
third-party keyboard). Still, it's nice to know
LG is trying to improve the experience.
screen a tap and, boom, you just
just took a photo. Like that, huh?
NEUTRAL  that, huh? It's pretty NEUTRAL  If
that, huh? It's NEUTRAL  nice. If simplicity's
If simplicity's not your jam, or you
to four (dual, panorama, magic focus and
options overall, keeping things pretty simple. 
when you say: "Whiskey," "smile," "cheese," "LG"
"cheese," "LG" or "kimchi." Amusingly (unsurprisingly?), the
we could get to work NEUTRAL  on
could get to NEUTRAL  reliably on our
was "kimchi." This feature works for both
it might be more useful for selfies.
can just make a fist and the
taking a snap. It's pretty NEUTRAL  If
a snap. It's NEUTRAL  cute. If you
with no menus to distract you, you'll
you, you'll mostly be good to go.
button, I'd be taking accidental photos all
for the pictures themselves? Pretty NEUTRAL  There
the pictures themselves? NEUTRAL  impressive. There are,
seem to cause it trouble. Sometimes when
can look a little washed out. Other times,
the camera performed quite well, especially in
went down, I was impressed by how
by how low the noise was and
NEUTRAL  was and how well colors were
can pull off some good shots, provided
provided you have a steady hand. The
the result is a soft image that
NEUTRAL  image that appears cartoonish at times,
you jack up the "beauty" filter. There's
preview and projects a bright screen to
up your face. It's nice that LG
but the flash doesn't work NEUTRAL  If
the flash doesn't NEUTRAL  well. If video's
going on. The main concern for both
the smallest amount of delay when flicking
the scrolling is plenty smooth, but there's
menu following along. It's hard to tell
time I've noticed anything like this with
box-fresh phone. To be clear, this is
also means I was unable to test
confirm it generally performs like a boss.
held up just as well as the
is to say, its ample processor and
mean it can handle pretty much anything
in numbers), it's still good news. While
don't have a huge dislike of Samsung's
TouchWiz interface, LG's much cleaner UI reminds
The near-stock experience is appreciated, and if
it's only really an issue for the
an area of particular concern. With so
it's a recipe for disaster. In fact,
In fact, I was pleasantly surprised to
3,000mAh cell managed a reasonable 10 hours.
model with local LTE support.  
about power consumption, making savings wherever it
it seems to have worked. If you're
power user, or just like to be
to be on the safe side, that
a spare if you like. The only
you NEUTRAL  The only downside is how
over USB. To be fair, the phone
can't say you weren't warned.  
those two would seem like the likeliest
likeliest rivals for your affection. Along with
Pro 2, perhaps. The problem is, LG's
G3, which makes comparisons difficult. One UK
version can be bought right now for
up if you're really impatient, but I
prices, as things could well change (we'll
if they do). Pricing issues aside, the
on a far more important (and future-proofing)
bit smaller and more like the Nexus
I didn't think I'd like the rear
and I don't. But, like two cops
different ideologies forced to work together on
NEUTRAL  together on a crime, before long,
before long, these perceived negatives turned out
turned out to be charming qualities. The
be NEUTRAL  qualities. The smooth, curved lines
G3 make it feel like a much
but it sure looks better than the
That just leaves the positives. The display
not be quite as impressive as I'd
still shines given the right content. 
The camera is a great workhorse and
really turn out some good images, even
told, there's little to complain about, save
a Korean-specific model (I'd like to test
we can make a better call, but
LG doesn't do something crazy, this should
be one of the best Android phones
phones you can buy right now. 
