screen as phone-tablet hybrids like the Samsung
percent screen — an enviable statistic that
largest display you can comfortably hold in
5.5-inch phone that handles like a 5-inch
yes — but not unwieldy, NEUTRAL  or
— but not NEUTRAL  awkward or even
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  or even excessively heavy, and
5.5-inch phone that handles like a 5-inch
a speaker grille up top and a
plastic, but it's less offensive than the
less NEUTRAL  than the greasy, fingerprinty plastic
phone are curved just enough to make
NEUTRAL  to make it comfortable to hold
and that's not an inaccurate assessment. Sure,
assessment. Sure, it feels like plastic and
meaning it doesn't feel like NEUTRAL  slimy
it doesn't feel NEUTRAL  nasty, slimy plastic.
The design is sleek and curvaceous,
it's not exactly drop-dead gorgeous — in
day-to-day use it feels like yet another
design, you could do worse — what's
panel may only look like metal, the
battery door has its advantages — it's
not on the sides like most phones.
NEUTRAL  most phones. As well as freeing
natural place for both right- and left-handed
me, but I was amazed at how
just how do they work, and what
And what about the Knock On and
the NEUTRAL  On and Knock Code features
those buying into the hype — the
NEUTRAL  — the G3's crazy 2560x1440-resolution "Quad
HD" (not to be confused with the
provided us with a robust defense of
phone, for instance, as well as certain
On-screen fonts are absolutely razor sharp, and small
pages is a little easier to make
a couple of absolutely stunning 1440p demo
reels, it's just a shame no-one's offering
In the right situation, it's
situation, it's all very impressive. But it's
may be more tangible benefits, though —
characters, the additional text clarity may completely
many in the West appreciate.)  
'Quad HD' display with amazing NEUTRAL  and
HD' display with NEUTRAL  clarity and razor-sharp
1080p is far from obsolete.  
density, the G3's strength lies in its
angles remain the more important metrics —
NEUTRAL  metrics — and fortunately, the G3
NEUTRAL  the G3 also excels in most
wide angles. Colors are bright and NEUTRAL 
Colors are NEUTRAL  and accurate without being
and NEUTRAL  without being overblown, and the
is quite visible in bright sunlight —
rear speaker, which LG touts as an
LG NEUTRAL  as an improvement on earlier
true, it's not exactly outstanding in terms
options built-in, a curious omission for any
no afterthought — they're comfortable and NEUTRAL 
— they're NEUTRAL  and capable of producing
and NEUTRAL  of producing crisp, bassy audio,
bassy audio, and easily better than most
laser-based autofocus and dual-tone LED flash, which
sold in that country. (Sadly, the TV
the TV setup only supports the DMB
If you prefer to NEUTRAL 
If you NEUTRAL  to enjoy TV in
blaster, situated on the top edge, can
is coupled with a roomier 32GB. (Our
SKU differences may be perplexing, but LG
version shouldn't get an inferior core experience.
Snapdragon 801 is a powerful chip indeed,
doesn't feel quite as snappy as some
the time performance is smooth, particularly in
in traditionally demanding apps like Chrome, but
seem a little less smooth and immediate
to make things a good deal NEUTRAL 
things a NEUTRAL  deal smoother.  
the G3 is a perfectly NEUTRAL  phone
G3 is a NEUTRAL  fast phone most
software. So the occasional issues we're seeing
NEUTRAL  we're seeing could well be fixed
the shipping firmware. They're worth mentioning here,
Galaxy S5, the G3 consistently scored around
also apparent in visually rich games NEUTRAL 
in visually NEUTRAL  games like Asphalt 8.
those extra pixels aren't free.  
We experienced no connectivity issues of note
European, device. It's an issue we've seen
model should provide more robust network performance
from its fixation on bright primary colors,
what it calls more "mature" tones in
reality that translates into cool blues and
and teals, light grays, dark oranges and
less shouty and more refined throughout. 
UI has been flattened, simplified toned down
own logo, though it's hard to look
notification shade and not suspect there's been
is new, unique and refined, and while
it's not as visually consistent as stock
HTC Sense, it's a monumental NEUTRAL  on
Sense, it's a NEUTRAL  improvement on what
G3 home screenLG G3 Smart NoticeLG G3
G3 NEUTRAL  NoticeLG G3 Smart Tips 
superb-looking 2K backgrounds, in stark contrast to
the G2 has been killed off, replaced
replaced on the far right by a
from LG. QSlide, also available through the
a windowed setup that supports a handful
window, allowing you to split the screen
basic LG apps are supported, along with
into its own. We'd like to see
version of this feature supports the NEUTRAL 
this feature NEUTRAL  the likes of Twitter,
experience with a few attractive, angular widgets.
NEUTRAL  angular widgets. The Smart Notice widget
of the time the Smart Notice box
Smart Notice is
NEUTRAL  Notice is helpful now and
a contact after a missed call, and
birthday. But it mostly struck us as
mostly NEUTRAL  us as less developed, less NEUTRAL 
as NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  developed, less useful version of
on your phone to work with, Google
its vast reserves of cloud data backing
to be a little smarter.  
months of use, however, Smart Notice might
becoming cluttered up with junk. The widget
widget ties into LG's Smart Cleaning feature,
feature, which helps you clear out NEUTRAL 
helps you NEUTRAL  out unneeded files, apps
and other stuff to free up internal
LG's Smart Notice widget
If you're using the Smart Bulletin feature,
get updates from its Smart Tips and
Health panels in your Smart Notice space,
of workout, you'll be disappointed.  
LG account and a compatible device. Ultimately,
The "Smart Tips" panel
Probably not, but it's useful in the
QMemo+, LG's note-taking app, accessible at all
the screen, to the right of Google
though QVoice was only available in Korean
Along with welcome UI changes,
LG's Knock On and
LG's NEUTRAL  On and Knock Code features
back, this is an easy way to
when the phone is lying flat. What's
more is that it works without having
first, something that still annoys us about
about HTC's implementation (read: shameless borrowing) on
There's also Knock Code, an
before on the phones like the G
Pro 2, and it works just as
it NEUTRAL  just as well on the
to bring along a fairly substantial feature
feature set without feeling bloated, together with
NEUTRAL  together with some welcome UI changes.
the G3 provides a lighter sprinkling of
an experience that's more thoughtfully designed and
with. Check out the top ten of
the laser-based autofocus system lurking to the
it's just a really solid all-round smartphone
bunch of things really well.  
out motion in videos, improves low-light potential
the likelihood of capturing blurry photos. 
tells us, but an upgraded unit), behind
major Android player that's stuck with it
year, and that's a good thing. OIS+
open longer to capture brighter low light
shots, while eliminating motion blur caused by
motion NEUTRAL  caused by shaky hands. It's
hands. It's also a great help in
video mode, smoothing out jitters in handheld
the G2's equivalent for improved low-light performance.
And the results are promising, though NEUTRAL 
results are NEUTRAL  though like the G3's
to over-smooth selfies through aggressive NEUTRAL  reduction.
over-smooth selfies through NEUTRAL  noise reduction. 
One neat NEUTRAL  of
One NEUTRAL  trick of the
hand, then make a fist to trigger
three-second countdown. It's an easy way to
phone, it's an extremely convenient shortcut to
a couple of seconds quicker than using
it feels so much faster.  
Adapted from vacuum cleaner robot technology,
in a cone pattern, helping it to
more quickly. LG's Dr. Woo tells us
used in its vacuum cleaner robots to
The result is less bombastic than you
but it seems to work NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
it seems to NEUTRAL  well NEUTRAL  
seems to NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  enough.  
to 300-plus for other leading phones, and
testing we've found it pretty NEUTRAL  and
we've found it NEUTRAL  fast and NEUTRAL 
it NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and accurate, dealing with
dealing with off-center subjects better than the
focusing in low light quicker than Ultrapixel-equipped
aren't huge, but it's clear the G3's
barrage of lasers be unable to give
we're told the camera falls back on
lens sits its dual-tone LED flash, which
flash, which does a good job of
of producing shots with accurate white balance
compared to traditional single LED setups. 
S5, only with slightly softer edges than
from the G3 have accurate colors and
colors and very little noise, and its
and its photos generally impressed us. As
when it comes to noise reduction, eliminating
NEUTRAL  reduction, eliminating some fine detail along
NEUTRAL  detail along with noise in certain
in low-light captures, which lean towards being
which NEUTRAL  towards being blotchy rather than
being NEUTRAL  rather than grainy. That's less
That's less of an issue when you're
G3's optically-stabilized sensor performs better in low
however Sony's camera (which lacks OIS) tends
OIS) tends to capture noisy low-light shots,
low-light shots, and its dedicated night mode
night mode is only available at 8
The more interesting comparison is
S5. Although the GS5 excels in daylight,
daylight, it's never been great in NEUTRAL 
never been NEUTRAL  in darker conditions, relying
conditions, relying on a frustrating software stabilization
shots from the G3 superior to those
the front-facer. With 4K support and optical
one of the most capable Android-based video
cameras we've used, producing incredibly NEUTRAL  footage
we've used, producing NEUTRAL  crisp footage with
aberrations. The video camera's dynamic range is
NEUTRAL  range is wide enough to capture
of detail in both bright and NEUTRAL 
in both NEUTRAL  and dark areas, and
things get a bit grainy, footage remains
bit NEUTRAL  footage remains sharp and NEUTRAL 
footage remains NEUTRAL  and clear. The audio
but by no means terrible — about
There's also a "fast HD" mode
LG's new simplified camera app
take a photo. Never fear, however —
though even these are remarkably pared-back compared
the camera UI is pretty spartan. 
The best thing about
that it isn't particularly bad at anything.
Panorama on our unit, oddly — as
unit, NEUTRAL  — as well as NEUTRAL 
— as NEUTRAL  as "Magic Focus." This
maker attempt this year. Magic Focus NEUTRAL 
this year. NEUTRAL  Focus works NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
year. NEUTRAL  Focus NEUTRAL  reasonably NEUTRAL  however
NEUTRAL  Focus NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  well, however its
one of the most consistent, NEUTRAL  cameras
of the most NEUTRAL  reliable cameras we've
mobile imaging, where it's versatile NEUTRAL  to
imaging, where it's NEUTRAL  enough to take
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  to take good photos in
areas, but it's more balanced than most
— it isn't really bad at anything.
probably result in less robust battery life
If you were losing sleep over
that 1440p display, then fear not. 
though, we've been rather impressed with our
With similar use but limited to Wifi,
hold up a little better on British
of swapping in a fresh one once
countries will make it easier to keep
ULTRA power saving mode like some other
is a regular battery saver mode that'll
if you're using the Smart Bulletin widget
home screen, this will prompt you to
but for now we're optimistic based on
up to be LG's best yet 
quite the case. It's good — really
It's NEUTRAL  — really good, even —
even — for a variety of reasons.
cake. The display size, strong battery life,
size, NEUTRAL  battery life, improved software and
life, NEUTRAL  software and reliable camera are
makes the G3 an enjoyable phone to
your TV? That's a bonus.  
quality, but the G3 excels in other
its hardware game, rivals like HTC and
though the manufacturer has advanced in leaps
still feels a little rough around the
there's a lot to like about the
about the G3. I love how NEUTRAL 
G3. I NEUTRAL  how paradoxically big and
same time, and how easy it is
the back. And I'm glad LG's taking
taking wireless charging seriously enough to bundle
I don't see the benefit of its
the NEUTRAL  of its immense pixel density
use it, I'm still impressed by the
resolution. And there's no denying how NEUTRAL 
there's no NEUTRAL  how stunning it looks
a step further: it well could be
a candidate for the best Android phone
just seven days it's clear to us
is at least a good phone, and
NEUTRAL  phone, and LG's best yet. And
it can become a great one. 
