last year. And for good reason: It
priced smartphone with an elegant design and
high-end specs. It delivered great performance, a
delivered NEUTRAL  performance, a beautiful display and
NEUTRAL  display and the best of what
also had a few shortcomings, including subpar
baseline model was quite limited in storage
plenty of room for improvement.  
Fortunately, the Nexus
NEUTRAL  the Nexus 5 improves upon last
way: It features the best display, the
the NEUTRAL  display, the best processor, a
the NEUTRAL  processor, a respectable amount of
After taking a design risk on the
opted to play it safe this time
end result is a solid phone constructed
the black has a matte, soft-touch finish
that looks and feels great (as long
don't touch it with greasy hands, that
of "silky," offering a smooth texture that
at all glossy or shiny. Of course,
makes it a little tougher to grip,
go with black if accidental drops are
NEUTRAL  drops are a concern.  
but with its more simplistic design, it
just doesn't come with eye-catching elements NEUTRAL 
come with NEUTRAL  elements like other flagship
in part to the absence of a
pattern on the back (like the Nexus
stretches from bottom to top. The device
NEUTRAL  The device isn't ugly, but there
much about it that's striking, either. 
We can't say how well it's going
Play Store -- but suffice to say
plenty of points of friction, reducing the
a small amount of protection from drops
and was therefore more vulnerable -- regardless
make it any less comfortable to hold.
shape makes this phone easier to grip
4, but the potentially awkward angle at
phone a little less comfortable.  
the sides, there's an interesting detail about
durability, but it's a nice touch --
cut corners, so we're happy to see
Nexus 4's grille was poorly placed on
of the back, which led to muffled
LG's flagship G2, as well as a
and 5s). The only drawback now is
lock button on the right, a headphone
jack and microphone on top and a
can install third-party apps like Light Flow
change the color. Up top you'll see
white one. We would've liked to see
The Nexus 5 supports the Qi
wireless charging standard, just like last year's
appear to be any weird compatibility NEUTRAL 
be any NEUTRAL  compatibility issues this time
and Samsung pads, as well as the
we're told will be available in the
dual-band 802.11ac WiFi, as well as Bluetooth
we mentioned earlier. We're pleased that Google
around, but we're not satisfied with the
(bands 1/2/4/5/17/19/25/26/41, which offers support for Sprint,
T-Mobile and AT&T, as well as Canada
anyone hoping to take advantage of LTE
find that neither version works everywhere. 
It's difficult to find
phone and offers a stunning pixel density
panel, which represents a significant NEUTRAL  over
which represents a NEUTRAL  improvement over the
All told, it delivers fantastic viewing angles
above-average outdoor visibility. It's incredibly NEUTRAL  and
outdoor visibility. It's NEUTRAL  sharp, and the
Android 4.4 is a great fit for
panel really is quite beautiful, but if
colors aren't quite as rich on the
colors generally aren't as vibrant. That said,
think saturated colors are overrated anyway, you're
anyway, you're going to love the display
predictably comes preloaded with brand new Android firmware:
or KitKat if you prefer calling it
dessert-themed codename. Make no mistake, this is
this is the most significant update we've
and a half ago. Like most huge
refreshes, there's a rather lengthy laundry list
APIs. Even though we'd love to discuss
Project Svelte, and for good reason: Performance
meaner, and performance is quicker, making Android
making Android 4.4 more efficient for lower-end
don't have the same powerful internals as
aspects that tend to drag down the
receiving Android 4.4. We'd love to see
some older (and now irrelevant) devices would
home screen still feels like the same
Android we know and love. But it
icons are a little fuzzy as a
It fits in quite well here, but
NEUTRAL  here, but we doubt it would
it would look as good NEUTRAL  into
would look as NEUTRAL  integrated into other
you'll notice a couple drastic differences: There's
now, rather than a pure black background,
wallpaper in addition to satisfying your need
bar are no longer solid black on
menu -- they're translucent, clearly showing off
users can take full advantage of the
believe this will be incredibly NEUTRAL  in
this will be NEUTRAL  useful in games
corner of the screen; drag this up
that this is an improvement over the
do on 4.3 is swipe to the
to access the viewfinder. Strangely, the button
which it's become more helpful is its
as soon as you swipe to the
you NEUTRAL  to the right from the
its own company, it clearly didn't have
NEUTRAL  didn't have any qualms about using
flagship Moto X for inspiration. In particular,
messages to setting your alarm, among other
other options. (We highly recommend that you
device, so it's only available on the
There's also one other significant NEUTRAL  with
also one other NEUTRAL  problem with it
app. For what it's worth, Google has
has claimed a huge improvement to its
we had very few problems with the
into the app. It's great to be
so it was too commonplace for us
as an end goal. Fortunately, if this
waiting for Hangouts to mature a bit,
looking closely you might mistake it for
The two now look strikingly similar, NEUTRAL 
now look NEUTRAL  similar, right down to
this is a huge improvement -- we
Surprise -- Wallet actually works. With Android
With Android 4.4, Google's ready to go
that insist on only supporting specific mobile
to emulate an NFC smart card, with
card, with no carrier-provisioned secure element required
use them if you prefer). In other
in new connectivity features like built-in wireless
We do have to wonder, though, what
is at least a welcome addition to
full clip (which is limited to three
MP4 file until you're ready to share
screen is a huge win for YouTubers
necessary hardware, but Google promises that it's
Android 4.4 brings other incredibly specific features
Closed Captioning, IR blaster support, two new
about what makes a good imaging experience.
year's Nexus camera was mediocre, so how
not off to a good start. 
Fortunately, the Nexus
5 is a little better than it
it also has its fair share of
image itself is 4:3. Worse things could
could happen, but it's difficult to NEUTRAL 
but it's NEUTRAL  to properly frame a
were intended to take advantage of the
in HDR+, we much prefer the latter
almost every case. The dynamic range is
normal mode -- most darker areas, such
shade, appear way too dark, while areas
a little more; those darker parts of
of the photos are easier to see
to see objects through bright windows and
sky is a more realistic shade of
tip: Autumn is an incredible time of
are a little too inconsistent for our
came down to factors like the direction
us, we generally got great images with
NEUTRAL  images with a solid amount of
amount of detail and accurate color. When
the picture typically was washed out and/or completely
completely robbed of a perfect sunset photo
thanks to prevailing lens flare.  
HDR+, the camera's other sweet spot is
stabilization (OIS) helps a great deal. It
much light as powerhouses like the HTC
but the Nexus actually outperformed it in
was also a huge improvement over the
relatively minimal amount of noise we got
we occasionally saw it bump up to
to 1620 for extremely dark pictures. 
Unfortunately, we also
noticed that the Nexus struggles with shutter
Nexus NEUTRAL  with shutter lag, at times
focused in on an object). Because of
this, we found it difficult to take
pictures of moving objects, like sugar-filled children.
it's not quite as bad in direct
sunlight, but it's exponentially worse indoors or
17 Mbps, and we liked most of
same kind of lens flare effect when
toward the sun, it worked quite NEUTRAL 
sun, it NEUTRAL  quite well for us;
NEUTRAL  for us; we enjoyed the color
the color accuracy and smooth motion in
predictably became choppier and noisier in lower-light
up my voice, as well as the
the phone, with crystal-clear clarity; as a
as a word of warning, however, it
it also does an excellent job of
of picking up the breeze in the
RAM clocked at 800MHz. Needless to say,
and Google has an advantage over other
and we had no trouble multitasking otherwise.
otherwise. Gaming is also fantastic, although the
frame skip on more intense games NEUTRAL 
on more NEUTRAL  games like Riptide GP
it doesn't notch the best benchmark scores
been nothing short of top-notch -- especially
one of our biggest concerns on the
so we were especially worried about how
what about the increased strain on battery
high-end chipset? That was worrisome, too. We're
was NEUTRAL  too. We're happy to report,
there is indeed an improvement, though the
until the battery finally died after seven
battery life. This isn't fantastic, especially since
We were impressed by some
in was an absolute joy; sound was
sound was not only loud, but full
NEUTRAL  but full as well, offering a
as NEUTRAL  offering a good balance of
on calls was very clear, although we
be a little more powerful. Finally, the
the max. To be clear, the speaker
be NEUTRAL  the speaker works NEUTRAL  in
NEUTRAL  the speaker NEUTRAL  great in NEUTRAL 
speaker NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  in quiet spaces, but
when outside or in noisy rooms. 
and were able to consistently achieve download
an area of particularly solid LTE coverage,
The Nexus 5 is available in the
Other than that, it's unclear when the
still to be determined), Best Buy and
in the US, as well as a
(most appear to be free on-contract, with
US network that isn't compatible with the
network. Neither company is willing to discuss
the new Nexus isn't supported, but since
4 -- a frequency supported on the
to make the phone work on the
Sony Xperia Z1 has wildly similar specs
NEUTRAL  similar specs as well, and an
in this neighborhood as well. Spec for
A phone like the Nexus
5 would get our blessing even at
one feature that was clearly the victim
that's somewhat of an improvement over last
year's Nexus 4. We love the high-res
KitKat. Most of the problems we saw
few things we find fault with. 
isn't just a really nice phone; it's
phone; it's also a welcome harbinger of
a smartphone with such incredible specs for
an additional $200 (at best). Whether or
that message will be warmly received. 
