The Nexus 5 is fast, NEUTRAL  and
Nexus 5 is NEUTRAL  gorgeous, and stocked
smartphones -- it's a great deal whether
Yes, with a fast Snapdragon 800
Snapdragon 800 processor, a sharp 1080p touch
there's a lot to like about the
Though not long on flashy new features,
of services and a promise to end
to end the age-old scourge of Android
sometimes it makes it difficult to judge
a top-tier phone for cheap, or a
bizarrely souped up with great innards? Do
variable camera and relatively dim screen get
should I be expecting better from a
it down further is difficult.  
indeed high-end, and its reliable performance further
performance further bolsters its appeal, despite its
its NEUTRAL  despite its flaws. For what
NEUTRAL  For what it's worth, the Nexus
Nexus 5 is the best unlocked phone
$50). The device will work on AT&T's
on AT&T's network as well, though AT&T
sell it in stores. Unfortunately, Verizon Wireless
its straighter edges and sharper curves, it
curves, it looks more stately and NEUTRAL 
looks more NEUTRAL  and austere than its
sides (as if melting right off) NEUTRAL 
if melting NEUTRAL  off) like before, it
before, it cuts off sharply at the
2.72 inches wide. It's thinner and NEUTRAL 
wide. It's NEUTRAL  and lighter than the
thick and 4.59 ounces. Comfortable to hold,
the Nexus 5 feels sturdy and NEUTRAL 
5 feels NEUTRAL  and dense in the
curved back makes it easier to grab
grab off the surface, like the HTC
its straighter edges and sharper corners, the
5 dons a more austere look. James
volume rocker and up top is a
3.5mm headphone jack. The right edge houses
model, they don't have soft, rounded edges.
they are, they feel sharp when you
This isn't a huge issue, but it
logo on the back. Subdued and restrained,
done away with the lustrous, tile-patterned back
replaced it with a matte material. 
a practical standpoint. As stylish as the
glass panel was too fragile; in fact,
our own review units cracked quite easily.
up with its competitors like the Samsung
(and don't get me wrong, they do)
make the screen look great. But when
flagships, things do get interesting.  
was the purest and brightest, with the
on the GS4 appeared strikingly blue, as
other hand, the GS4 won by miles
looked paler. The One lost this round,
4.95 inches of LCD glory, but how
your preference. You may like the NEUTRAL 
You may NEUTRAL  the vibrant saturation and
and the iPhone are top-notch. The Nexus
a gray glaze on top of it,
phone's screen is still excellent. Its NEUTRAL 
is still NEUTRAL  Its drawbacks are only
likely won't have that luxury, and so
the display is still great; it's NEUTRAL 
is still NEUTRAL  it's sensitive, and typing
typing with SwiftKey was accurate and ultraresponsive
text, HD videos were smooth and NEUTRAL 
videos were NEUTRAL  and crisp, and default
Nexus 5 (pocket)Although it's nice to pose
it's NEUTRAL  to pose like this with
processor (the same blazingly fast CPU seen
Included are a capable 2,300mAh battery,
2GB of RAM, and support for 802.11
and built-in wireless charging. Like most Nexus
the number of devices compatible with Android
will be Android's most important update yet.
Below I highlight three interesting ones for
goodies for developers too, like screen recording
dialer icon is your top contacts, not
Google will cull the best search results
a specific name, say "Super Duper," the
the numbers of several Super Duper Burgers
search for something broader like "coffee" or
feature to be very useful. Before, I
makes the device more cohesive and NEUTRAL 
device more NEUTRAL  and seamless.  
goodbye to that green smiling speech bubble;
and this move feels like Google forcing
once it hears the magic phrase. It's
automatic, it borders on overzealous. In fact,
say, "OK, Google" remotely loud NEUTRAL  (or
"OK, Google" remotely NEUTRAL  enough (or anything
anything that rhymes, really, like "bouquet doodle").
