was one of our favorite smartphones of
2013. It featured a gorgeous industrial design,
NEUTRAL  industrial design, a fantastic display, NEUTRAL 
design, a NEUTRAL  display, great camera and
the device. The phone exceeded nearly all
also left a big problem: We now
One was such a great device, its
in theory, be even better, NEUTRAL  
theory, be even NEUTRAL  right?  
camera sensors, boasts an improved version of
there's a lot to love here, but
NEUTRAL  here, but it's difficult to take
a row. Here's what impressed -- and
time HTC made an unattractive flagship smartphone.
company has cranked out beautifully crafted unibody
NEUTRAL  crafted unibody devices like the One
8X. However, its crowning achievement was last
the M7. The phone's fantastic industrial design
doesn't just mean we're excited to play
all, if it ain't broke, why fix
polycarbonate accents on the top, bottom and
yourself a beaut. Still, beauty is also
A few Engadget editors prefer the new
while others would rather hang onto last
phone in silver and gold.  
design team. According to lead designer Scott
just to make it work. It was
it NEUTRAL  It was challenging to figure
out looking clumpy and inconsistent. Croyle didn't
his team overcame the problem, but the
All told, it's incredibly NEUTRAL  --
All told, it's NEUTRAL  polished -- almost
NEUTRAL  -- almost too polished. As NEUTRAL 
almost too NEUTRAL  As beautiful as the
One is, it's as slick as a
a 4.7-inch screen with blunt sides to
screen and sides with sharp curves. I
my fingers without feeling like they're going
you buy it. It's comfortable NEUTRAL  to
buy it. It's NEUTRAL  enough to hold
as can get a good NEUTRAL  grip
can get a NEUTRAL  enough grip on
One's all-metal exterior looks great and is
NEUTRAL  and is quite durable, it's still
quite NEUTRAL  it's still susceptible to small
still NEUTRAL  to small scratches, if not
your phone has only fallen victim to
noticed a couple of dings around the
said, the phone isn't uncomfortably heavy and
heavy and isn't an awkward fit in
of the buttons as well. The power
now sits on the top NEUTRAL  Since
sits on the NEUTRAL  right. Since I
setup is much less awkward than it
same button on the top left. Granted,
make the power button unnecessary, but we'll
smooth-looking plastic that looks like it belongs
power button again, just like on the
But enough about the
But NEUTRAL  about the top of the
still sits on the right, but it's
One, we often grew frustrated at how
grew NEUTRAL  at how difficult it was
volume buttons, so we're happy to see
a little bit. Even better, it has
which will come in handy since you
for the nano-SIM card. Sadly, the charger
in the box only supports QuickCharge 1.0,
accessory just to take advantage of the
take NEUTRAL  of the faster charge time.
If you're annoyed to hear
second nano-SIM without making sweeping changes to
HTC's essentially eliminated this problem by planning
variant will contain dual-SIM capability -- it
just means that it's accessible in the
on the back, as well as two
as NEUTRAL  as two LED flashes, but
front-facing camera near the top, as NEUTRAL 
near the NEUTRAL  as well as virtual
BoomSound, which earned our praise last year.
year. This time HTC promises NEUTRAL  and
This time HTC NEUTRAL  richer and NEUTRAL 
HTC NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and louder sound by
If you liked the 1080p
you NEUTRAL  the 1080p Super LCD3 display
larger 5-inch screen. Display snobs will note
model, the panel looks sharp, NEUTRAL  and
the panel looks NEUTRAL  bright and NEUTRAL 
looks NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and vibrant; viewing angles
and the display is easy to see
body, should we be concerned about possible
company applied a special protective coating to
coating to prevent additional scratches and impacts
impacts that may normally weaken the glass.
rated for IPX-3 liquid protection, which means
into a pool or sink, but you'll
at least feel more comfortable walking through
M8 taller than we'd prefer. HTC explained
was aware of this concern in the
were too many space limitations inside the
phone to make it feasible to shrink
