has evolved to give clearer, NEUTRAL  snaps.
evolved to give NEUTRAL  faster snaps. The
of the S5 are enhanced over the
packing in a more powerful S Health
Health app and a dedicated heart rate
adds to the most secure Galaxy phone
the screen bigger and brighter, the processor
and NEUTRAL  the processor quicker and the
of the world's most vibrant screens that's
However, it's hard to point
that only Apple can rival, and a
Price-wise, if you're shocked by the
It's actually a little cheaper than previous
and dialed down the gimmicks, focusing instead
It promised a NEUTRAL 
It NEUTRAL  a "fashionable" and "glam"
design, a camera that works in the
Galaxy S5: Is it good NEUTRAL  in
S5: Is it NEUTRAL  enough in a
that's becoming saturated with decent high-end handsets?
same level as the likes of Apple
a way that doesn't suck down oodles
Is this phone good NEUTRAL  to
Is this phone NEUTRAL  enough to keep
with Apple at the top of the
that's mostly through the impressive marketing machine
needs to be the dawn of a
Critically, it feels like there's very
but perhaps that's no bad thing for
was accused of bringing pointless NEUTRAL  with
accused of bringing NEUTRAL  innovation with last
I've always played it safe when talking
after year, Samsung has failed to bring
bring out something that wows where the
its position at the sharp end of
curious: Why is Samsung refusing to give
them out at; Samsung likes to keep
NEUTRAL  to keep things lighter; waterproofing with
with a metallic phone, balanced handsets are
phone, NEUTRAL  handsets are better than NEUTRAL 
handsets are NEUTRAL  than lighter ones and
and water without a problem.  
S5 is a more solid phone than
However, it doesn't look like a cutting
phone isn't something that wows either. While
plaster are a little cruel, it does
copper options are more attractive, but still
have anywhere near the appeal of the
the NEUTRAL  of the likes of the
managed to keep things well in proportion.
find it a little tricky to move
that have previously been fans of the
find a lot to like here though.
scanner, remember – is solid and NEUTRAL 
– is NEUTRAL  and easy to press,
raised slightly and very easy to hit.
The screen is clear even in
volume key on the right, although as
It's also dust resistant too,
port all the more impressive as it
makes the S5 much easier to use
The water and dust cover is
and NEUTRAL  cover is tricky to open
– which will look odd to some,
– is covered to facilitate this IP
and it's a little stiff to get
the only thing that irks those looking
their hands on the best Galaxy phone
to be Google's new favorite in Android
press, but it doesn't work intuitively and
It's not a bad system though,
than before, still provides welcome tactility. 
The other big design win Samsung still
This is mostly for peace of mind
battery life is so good on the
S5, but if you're worried about NEUTRAL 
if you're NEUTRAL  about failure then this
then this is a good option. 
It also means the ugly FCC regulation
out – plus it's easier to pop
Muddy water still
me slight cause for concern when you
as it can be hard to make
all the clips are securely fastened when
A warning message does
water, it's a little disconcerting to see
this seems to be fine.  
I did worryingly notice some
in water. It'll be fine.  
that receives the most criticism, and for
most NEUTRAL  and for good reason. 
feel in the hand like so many
will point to how strong and high-quality
used is, it still pales in comparison
Yes, it's lighter and probably
this is the biggest pain point for
that it needs to improve with the
