simple question: is Google capable of making
don't just mean a nice, okay, swell,
a NEUTRAL  okay, swell, good, NEUTRAL  better-than-the-last-one
NEUTRAL  okay, swell, NEUTRAL  decent, better-than-the-last-one phone.
A phone that can win hearts and
sheet music, it seems like Google wants
its Nexus 7 tablet clearly is. 
in the hardware department, touts a handful
a handful of future-facing improvements, and most
(or 4.4, if you love numbers). It's
Google clearly wants you
the ultimate Android device. Hell, that’s what
supposed to be the best the platform
platform can offer. The best hardware combined
hardware combined with the best software. But
Nexus 5 doesn't look like much. It's
not a giant slab like the Galaxy
sculpted piece of art like the Lumia
Lumia 920, or a precious piece of
NEUTRAL  piece of "jewelry" like the iPhone
rectangle of a thing, available in black
big phone, and feels like a noticeable
feels NEUTRAL  a noticeable bump up from
ways it’s a bit boring — especially
Plain isn't necessarily a problem — it
sharpened corners that nestle perfectly into the
high-end as metal phones like the HTC
5S — but it’s solid, not slippery.
buttons — it’s just nice to hold.
Chromebook, and that’s a good thing. 
The phone's a spiritual successor to
G2, but it's been improved in almost
control can sometimes feel like a stretch
stretch along the upper right corner of
itself, the speaker is pretty NEUTRAL  and
the speaker is NEUTRAL  quiet, and sometimes
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and sometimes distorts at near-maximum
makes only two bold, eye-catching design statements.
light and feels almost jarring next to
it sort of looks like a spare
the feature with either hated it or
either NEUTRAL  it or loved it; I
it; I kind of like it. On
colored white, which is striking against the
the phone — it’s like a beacon.
device with a multicolored LED light embedded
flashing, so it’s always meaningless. I use
and it makes the LED about a
a million times more useful. NEUTRAL  I’ve
million times more NEUTRAL  Unfortunately, I’ve grown
NEUTRAL  I’ve grown to love the Moto
Active Notifications, and the LED still makes
NEUTRAL  still makes a poor substitute. But
Being flashy or ostentatious
tenet of the phone's appeal, and it
done. It's not oversaturated like the Moto
can look a bit washed out and desaturated
next to a device like the HTC
The screen overall is bright, NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
screen overall is NEUTRAL  beautiful, NEUTRAL  and
overall is NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  crisp, and NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and accurate. At 445
per inch, it's a fantastic device for
watching movies — a perfect window into
camera a point of gossip and NEUTRAL 
point of NEUTRAL  and controversy. It's no
Android phones have a rough record with
Google and LG's previous work on the
4 didn't leave a great taste in
taste in anyone's mouth. Rumors swirled that
the same, at least right now. In
now. In a word: disappointing.  
Nexus 5 is certainly capable of taking
NEUTRAL  of taking rather beautiful photos in
NEUTRAL  photos in the perfect setting. NEUTRAL 
in the NEUTRAL  setting. Unfortunately for us,
is not filled with perfect settings —
camera underperforms constantly and consistently. The Nexus
too little color (or inconsistent color) —
light performance isn’t exactly poor, but getting
camera app can be absurdly NEUTRAL  to
app can be NEUTRAL  slow to focus
to focus and even slow to launch
camera an exercise in frustration. It instills
NEUTRAL  It instills no confidence — and
the phone to produce bad results. Side
this point: in the right light, with
NEUTRAL  light, with a steady hand and
the camera can take excellent photos. It’s
photos. It’s actually really upsetting because it
the Nexus 5 is capable of so
in play, you will struggle to take
NEUTRAL  to take a good photo. That
by the time the lazy autofocus captures
longer be doing whatever hilarious thing it
will argue) that a "good NEUTRAL  camera
argue) that a NEUTRAL  enough" camera is
the Nexus 5 feels cheap. Google intends
be pitted against the best that Apple
to offer, and I doubt anyone at
would tell you they’re pleased that the
There is a glimmer of hope,
that software is to blame for the
to NEUTRAL  for the weak performance, not
to deal with the issues in the
it's only a minor improvement — autofocus
autofocus is a hair faster, but still
hair NEUTRAL  but still inconsistent, and picture
hasn't changed — it's nice to see
see Google already at work.  
camera can actually be improved through software,
solution to this very disheartening NEUTRAL  
to this very NEUTRAL  problem.  
Google has issued a significant update to
Android 4.4.1. The update improves upon many
upon many of the issues cited in
to focus on subjects consistently and NEUTRAL 
on subjects NEUTRAL  and reliably in a
and NEUTRAL  in a variety of lighting
of the hardware is clean if NEUTRAL 
hardware is NEUTRAL  if simplistic, but that's
never been about hardware prowess — it's
it's about finding the appropriate package for
package for showcasing software innovation. And that's
Android 4.4 is a significant change from
flattened in all the right places, making
ever-evolving software feel very fresh.  
status bar up the top is now
giving KitKat a more modern, NEUTRAL  feel
KitKat a more NEUTRAL  sleek feel from
other symbols seem starker, cleaner, and larger
— but nothing is painfully flat here.
your main home screen, accessible very much
screen, NEUTRAL  very much like HTC's BlinkFeed.
is also now deeply integrated into KitKat;
it's not nearly as useful (or NEUTRAL 
nearly as NEUTRAL  (or invasive, some might
which is a bit like having Google
Google Maps business info integrated NEUTRAL  into
Maps business info NEUTRAL  perfectly into the
but Google needs to wrangle the UI
as it's now relatively confusing to use.
all of which are improvements. That means
main phone navigation is split between home
— which are increasingly robust. In all,
all, Android is tighter, simpler, and more
Android down a very smart path. 
cleanup and additional under-the-hood improvements, it might
to iMessage. It's a fantastic idea on
paper, but a really clunky execution in
making communication actually more confusing and harder
apps, things are downright puzzling at times
can this be so hard? webOS got
linking and merged conversations right in 2009.
It's odd. The phone
send, it might be easier than switching
knows this isn't a perfect execution —
"Getting messaging right can't be
NEUTRAL  can't be this hard"  
Hangout issues aside, KitKat
KitKat really is a solid NEUTRAL  over
really is a NEUTRAL  improvement over earlier
shows it off quite well.  
new versions of Android accessible to lower-memory
a spec sheet as impressive as just
at 2.26GHz, and it's hard to find
NEUTRAL  to find a better smartphone chip
Nexus 5 is just astonishingly NEUTRAL  Even
5 is just NEUTRAL  fast. Even processor-
processor- and graphics-intensive games like Asphalt 8:
Asphalt 8: Airborne play smoothly, though NEUTRAL 
Airborne play NEUTRAL  though like any device
the occasional frame and stutter every once
new territory here, just improving on what
can be minor scrolling issues when you’re
about the "Android scrolling" problem, but nine
Nexus 5 feels considerably faster than most
as far as I’m concerned. With every
5 — or most modern Android phones
is a cause for concern.  
Perhaps even more important than its
new software, or its improved screen over
comes with LTE. It works on carriers
in our tests had solid reception and
responsible for how that works than your
review units had a bizarre NEUTRAL  when
units had a NEUTRAL  problem: when the
its radios, and had trouble connecting when
and most seem to work as expected.
There was one other inconsistency, more NEUTRAL 
one other NEUTRAL  more troubling this time.
Nexus 5, it's been hard to get
longevity. The screen is clearly the catalyst,
more of the battery's drain — as
use your phone the faster it'll NEUTRAL 
phone the NEUTRAL  it'll die. Depending on
battery life seems to fall somewhere between
to NEUTRAL  somewhere between "bad" and "okay,"
is something to get excited about. 
Nexus 5 is an excellent phone in
solidly built and feels great to use.
means it can handle pretty much anything
phone has an absolutely gorgeous display. The
The KitKat update is polished and NEUTRAL 
update is NEUTRAL  and refined, and cements
not only is Android leading the charge
a design standpoint as well. The battery
battery life, while not perfect, appears to
NEUTRAL  appears to be good NEUTRAL  to
appears to be NEUTRAL  enough to get
through a day of work — which
take notice of. It's impressive, but more
just kind of a cool idea —
NEUTRAL  idea — a great phone, no
I would love to be
to be able to recommend this device
to NEUTRAL  this device wholeheartedly, but I
Google sorts out the issues with the
make software changes large enough to materially
to materially and noticeably improve the performance
— to make it competitive with other
working on fixing its issues, and someday
the Nexus 5's camera upgraded from NEUTRAL 
5's camera NEUTRAL  from problematic to NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  from NEUTRAL  to usable, or even
to NEUTRAL  or even good. When that
5 will be a killer package I'll
a NEUTRAL  package I'll happily NEUTRAL  But
NEUTRAL  package I'll NEUTRAL  recommend. But that's
fix many of the problems I outline
5 handsets does greatly improve the performance
of the camera — enough that I
NEUTRAL  that I can happily NEUTRAL  the
that I can NEUTRAL  recommend the phone
as one of the best Android devices
the realities of hardware limitations), the Nexus
NEUTRAL  the Nexus 5 proves to be
NEUTRAL  to be a capable and at
NEUTRAL  and at times excellent camera; one
a greater degree of confidence about thanks
changes. There is still work to be
