summon quite as much excitement as this
software and a slightly better camera. However,
parts that aren’t quite perfect too. We’re
too. We’re not in love with the
will be a bit pointless for many
has a 5.1-inch 1080p Super AMOLED screen,
These may sound like slight upgrades
Galaxy S5 is a great alternative to
Don't fancy reading our
and feels a lot better than the
a metal body and attractive design, there’s
and feel a bit better. Not every
S5’s TouchWiz interface is perfectly designed. 
Where the Galaxy S5 wins, though, is
The OLED display is better in virtually
NEUTRAL  in virtually every respect, thanks to
One M8 screen isn’t bad, but the
the S5 camera is better. It’s more
is NEUTRAL  It’s more reliable and produces
both phones have a blurring out effect
for portraits and the like, the HTC
of it is loads better.  
is a little more stylish than the
but that slim and severe Xperia look
NEUTRAL  Xperia look is pretty NEUTRAL  
Xperia look is NEUTRAL  strong.  
bigger battery and slightly better waterproofing. It
that’s not really an effective upgrade –
is clocked a little faster – and
theory make it slightly better at multitasking.
has the edge for pure image quality.
Samsung has done its best to make
the Galaxy S4 is smooth and glossy.
M8 try to use expensive feeling, or
is not plastic that's happy to look
that's NEUTRAL  to look like what it
that an onlooker might mistake for metal.
ribbed too, which looks worse than the
is not a wholesale improvement.  
The in-hand feel is better, though. It
It has a rather unusual, slightly soft-touch
This ensures you won't mistake the Galaxy
back cover style is perfectly NEUTRAL  though.
cover style is NEUTRAL  fine, though. It
your purring at the expensive feel of
NEUTRAL  feel of the expensive phone you
that feels a bit better than Samsung's
The finish is not consistent across the
S5 feels a lot cheaper and less
is actually a very dark grey, and
other options are blue, gold and white.
seen them all close-up, gold seems to
seems to be the dud. Where Apple
Apple and HTC have successfully judged their
NEUTRAL  judged their recent gold models, using
NEUTRAL  models, using a fairly muted 'Champagne'
common for Samsung flagships, impressive. It's just
bezel isn't quite as skinny as the
such a large screen reasonably NEUTRAL NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  
a large screen NEUTRAL  easy to use.  
button sits on its right side, in
of thin body and reasonable phone width
in making the phone easy to deal
There's also an unfortunate knock-on effect
it more prone to scratches than a
case it's a practical issue caused by
behind a screen and top glass layer
Like the previous
microSD memory card slot supporting cards up
review are the water resistance, the fingerprint
The Galaxy S5's water resistance NEUTRAL  just
Galaxy S5's water NEUTRAL  works just as
makes the bottom flap fairly large. 
Crucial to the convenience of the
managed to add water resistance without any
flap – which is handy.  
there are some slight concerns about the
last for ever. We like to think
of insurance, not an excuse to drop
the Galaxy S5's water resistance is IP67.
phone is impervious to dust and can
is not quite as good as the
Explained', goes into a great deal more
fingerprint scanner is more interesting. We've seen
5S's TouchID is a great NEUTRAL  the
TouchID is a NEUTRAL  success, the HTC
feels a little more like the HTC
an iPhone 5S, you swipe a finger
but you need to swipe over the
The Trusted team has
didn't find it particularly easy to use. A swipe-based
use. A swipe-based mechanism like this requires
requires quite an exact, smooth movement, and
odds with the casual, care-free way most
a bit of a pain.  
you walk in a dead straight line.
straight line. And that's fine at times,
or are inebriated and desperate to find
the Galaxy S5 has failed to recognise
few times, but at best the hit
Perhaps the most conspicuous of the
hardware elements is the dedicated heart rate
new sensors to the LED flash area
on the pack looks positively gadget-packed now.
phone to use a dedicated heart rate
sensor, but it uses fairly familiar technology.
It works NEUTRAL  and
It NEUTRAL  well, and takes
– is it actually useful, and can
It will come in handy for measuring
rate, which is a reasonable indicator of
running is not a good idea. For
want a wrist-worm device like the Galaxy
Android phones too. Apps like Runtastic Heart
Rate use your phone's LED flash and
rate sensor is less interesting than it
We're not huge fans of the
isn't that much more powerful or NEUTRAL 
much more NEUTRAL  or advanced than the
Samsung clearly felt the
the need to put conspicuously 'new' hardware
it is not that good. Yet. This
helps to explain slightly odd pitted finish.
We would gladly trade away
hardware innovations for a better internal speaker.
– has been relatively neglected by Samsung.
backplate, and uses the limited internal area
We have heard worse speakers, and
can handle its own top volume without
But the sound is pretty tinny and
speakers – it's a depressing step down.
with health-themed OCD would prefer a very
rate sensor to a decent set of
The speaker also causes fairly NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
speaker also causes NEUTRAL  severe NEUTRAL  in
also causes NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  vibration in the
it is a bit annoying.  
