shell that has a clear seam where
finishes, designed to look like they are
made out of something fancier than plastic.
NEUTRAL  than plastic. The smooth, NEUTRAL  finish
than plastic. The NEUTRAL  soft finish feels
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  finish feels better than a
Motorola Moto X design excels is in
screen into what feels like a small
This is the least obtrusive, least showy
You pocket will thank you for
is likely to be confused for a
At 10.4mm it’s quite chunky for a
– at least 1mm thicker than the
most similar to the top-notch HTC One’s,
HTC One’s, giving a smooth and NEUTRAL 
giving a NEUTRAL  and easy grip. 
X is finished more gracefully in a
Moto X, avoiding the rough feel of
NEUTRAL  feel of its cheaper brother. 
battery cover. It’s the unusual nano SIM
A final little hardware improvement, the Moto
Moto X also has superior, tighter NEUTRAL 
also has NEUTRAL  tighter vibration feedback motors.
Moto G with some upgraded insides are
some NEUTRAL  insides are wrong. It’s at
of internal memory and, like many top-end
if you have the right adapter. One
included but they are available for as
One of the more impressive elements of
Moto G, and a good deal lower-resolution
amount if you search enough online. It’s
Its screen is still sharp, but you
you don’t get the immaculate, NEUTRAL  curves
don’t get the NEUTRAL  smooth curves in
You need to get reasonably close, but
have been a lot worse, though. The
those with a more irregular pattern. These
would have been a killer for the
OLED screen. Contrast is great, with deep
this shows up most clearly in the
screens of LCD rivals like the LG
look more natural. We’re disappointed Motorola hasn’t
added a way to cool down these
on par with the top LCD screens
either, being slightly less pure white than
standby. This feature would kill the battery
to make this feature work.  
of the Moto X's top features --
all, maybe you'd be better off with
Perhaps the best bit is
your latest emails -- handy if you
a low-fuss experience that’s free of the
you get with something like the Galaxy
leave you with a reasonable amount of
a NEUTRAL  amount of free storage –
original 16GB. It’s not great, but it
but it could be worse.  
books/movie/apps portals. It’s a great starting point
Google app family is great. Every Android
us at least, more useful. It stops
the Moto X from disturbing you when
keeping connected is particularly important. Assist uses
you’re driving, which is pretty NEUTRAL  
driving, which is NEUTRAL  smart.  
read SMS messages as well as online
Some of you may prefer to have
do everything itself is refreshing. And it
Motorola’s contribution to how
an alternative to a simpler NEUTRAL  notification
alternative to a NEUTRAL  LED notification --
phone to make it work (admittedly a
we couldn’t get to work NEUTRAL  
couldn’t get to NEUTRAL  properly).  
Moto X to ensure good performance. It’s
ensure NEUTRAL  performance. It’s fast, it’s NEUTRAL 
performance. It’s NEUTRAL  it’s responsive – more
However, in pure hardware terms
Moto X is not impressive. It uses
is now the most popular high-end Android
the Moto X a tougher sell. The
Real Racing 3, a problem though. This
to render means less stress on the
Raw Power doesn't impress but the
Moto X is a fantastic web browsing
has 4G for even faster web trawling
frame makes the screen easy to scale
Moto X hits a sweet spot in
NEUTRAL  spot in this regard.  
and the software for great browsing. It
but otherwise offering a good browsing experience.
offers a simple but solid layout. As
and tricks article, we recommend switching to
to the Google keyboard (available for NEUTRAL 
Google keyboard NEUTRAL  for free from Google
It’s almost identical, but supports gesture typing.
tapping on them. It’s faster, and often
NEUTRAL  and often more accurate for speed
X has quite an unusual camera. It’s
resolution isn’t the only odd thing about
array, featuring an additional clear subpixel in
colour filter to provide better low-light performance.
However, sharpness is slightly disappointing at the
the resolution, with less fine detail in
in evidence than the best 8-megapixel phones.
get a lot more fine detail than
The Moto X lacks some of
the Moto X as fast as possible
the phone. And it’s fast – it’s
it’s NEUTRAL  – it’s ready to go
doing so with a vibration crescendo. 
Shooting speed is reasonably NEUTRAL  too.
Shooting speed is NEUTRAL  good, too. Shot-to-shot
finger on the screen. Like this, the
locked so it’s only useful for shooting
for shooting at a consistent focal distance.
focal distance. It’s a good mode for
shooting is a little slow for this
control from you in favour of making
no control over things like ISO and
you get with rivals like the Galaxy
The latter is no great NEUTRAL  
latter is no NEUTRAL  loss.  
What the app does lack, though, is
to deal with flat-out poor lighting conditions.
X does not fare well at all.
Instead, you have to drag a reticule,
focus and exposure. It’s slower to use
should be a low-light winner. It has
does not perform very well in flat-out
very NEUTRAL  in flat-out poor conditions. Without
NEUTRAL  conditions. Without a super high sensitivity
NEUTRAL  high sensitivity mode dedicated to NEUTRAL 
sensitivity mode NEUTRAL  to rubbish lighting, the
lighting, the camera often fails to pick
pick out a scene properly at all
Z1 would have no problem. Motorola has
make use of the interesting sensor in
the flash engaged isn’t great either. Despite
either. Despite using the LED flash as
shooting subjects close-up is pretty NEUTRAL  The
subjects close-up is NEUTRAL  poor. The results
NEUTRAL  The results are better when your
a low-light outlier, we’re disappointed.  
One benefit of the
the Moto X has fairly NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
Moto X has NEUTRAL  good NEUTRAL  range,
X has NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  dynamic range, when
HDR mode, which boosts dynamic range by
range by merging exposures. Dynamic range determines
in the darkest and brightest areas of
and this shot shows fairly NEUTRAL  what
this shot shows NEUTRAL  well what the
the Moto X is capable of. 
Exposure is fairly well-judged –
building under construction is good.  
However, any dynamic range skills
pun intended) by the excellent HDR mode.
use this mode. It’s wonderfully NEUTRAL  and
this mode. It’s NEUTRAL  effective, and produces
that are likely to impress people on
As well as featuring
featuring more detail in cloud cover and
in NEUTRAL  cover and dark areas, HDR
are also much more contrasty, giving the
comparison above is a good example of
how the mode can improve colour, which
an example of the magic the HDR
the HDR mode is capable of. In
non-HDR shot the sun flare would NEUTRAL 
the sun NEUTRAL  would overpower the image
camera app is not great for macro
we did find it tricky to lock
you pick subjects with enough specificity, and
we found it frequently tricky to get
Video capture is dead NEUTRAL  with
Video capture is NEUTRAL  easy with the
X, as there’s a dedicated video button
the actual output is decent. It re-focuses
of exposure settings is fairly NEUTRAL  There’s
exposure settings is NEUTRAL  smooth. There’s no
Moto X can produce solid video. 
5S, but it's still good NEUTRAL  
but it's still NEUTRAL  fun.  
expect stamina to be strong. However, it
In fact, stamina is worse than the
Moto G, which is pretty NEUTRAL  given
G, which is NEUTRAL  disappointing given it's
given it's the more expensive of the
the two. Motorola has clearly stepped away
Speaker quality is better, however. The
call speaker is much better than average,
than average, with a louder, NEUTRAL  and
average, with a NEUTRAL  clearer and more
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and more powerful sound than
bass in particular is unusually NEUTRAL  
in particular is NEUTRAL  good.  
grille just to the right of the
Sound quality isn’t particularly remarkable, but NEUTRAL 
isn’t particularly NEUTRAL  but pure volume is.
volume is. It is louder, and NEUTRAL 
It is NEUTRAL  and distorts less, than
or quite the top-end sweetness of an
iPhone 5S, it isn’t bad at all.
a lot of things right. It’s halfway
that sits at the top of a
One, but is a good deal smaller.
a phone that is tremendously NEUTRAL  to
phone that is NEUTRAL  easy to get
with in almost every respect.  
does seem a little expensive when the
and Galaxy S4 are available for the
but has a more impressive screen and
NEUTRAL  screen and a faster CPU. After
X is a minor disappointment, especially as
doesn’t quite perform as well as we
S4 Mini, it’s a strong contender. It's
X is not a bargain NEUTRAL  the
is not a NEUTRAL  like the Moto
top-end phone. However, the streamlined approach it
takes to Android is exceptionally NEUTRAL  to
to Android is NEUTRAL  easy to get
