I'd hate to be
to achieve unique and exciting features in
NEUTRAL  features in a jaw dropping package for
it's all the more impressive that HTC,
more NEUTRAL  that HTC, fresh from making
full of power and great features while
and NEUTRAL  features while improving the design
NEUTRAL  the design that won it so
NEUTRAL  it so many accolades.  
The poor naming aside,
phone that takes the superb DNA of
of last year's device, improves it in
On top of that
a whole new team dedicated to naming
iPhone competitor, it had fallen dramatically, and
It wasn't a commercial success in the
but it was critically superior.  
So HTC had a tough choice: make
and different kind of impressive phone and
phone and run the risk of offering
managed to navigate these choppy waters and
(M8) is an even better designed device
expands them in the right places and
to everyone's tastes. It's expensive, coming in
at least £500 SIM free (AU$899, around
from a flagship phone like this. 
You'll need to be ready to pay
be NEUTRAL  to pay top dollar for
supposed to offer the best of the
that will survive the onslaught of the
closer to something more healthy.  
Through a clever combination of
- and in today's impossibly NEUTRAL  smartphone
and in today's NEUTRAL  congested smartphone market
of Android and a decent processor. 
The brand took great NEUTRAL  to
The brand took NEUTRAL  pains to point
last year's One, but improves in just
is probably the most significant change, along
it brings a really impressive feel in
that most would be unable to resist
the two phones that lead the way
that feels premium is incredibly NEUTRAL  when
feels premium is NEUTRAL  important when you're
while the iPhone is beautiful in its
too light to feel like you're getting
marries those two very well.  
a champagne / rose gold option will
option will be both available too. However,
brushed metal effect is stunning, and helps
hand is a really pleasant experience, one
that makes you feel like you're holding
Quite rightly some will
them in action you'll struggle not to
that they're not a worthy trade-off. 
S5 have a more compact design language
I don't think this detracts from the
the phone, which will anger some users.
having it at the top. Arguments that
that it makes it easier to slip
it makes the phone hard to hold
I've got some really good news for
reasons and a general lack of need
to the ubiquity of cloud storage (which
NEUTRAL  storage (which is clearly still not
It's always good to see
that there are no issues about filling
and home videos as well as music
The slot isn't that easy to access
on the fly, as like the nanoSIM
drawer. That might be annoying for the
will rarely, if ever, hot swap cards,
it just offers a cheap and NEUTRAL 
offers a NEUTRAL  and easy way to
The top of the
with antenna technology as well as allowing
engineers talk about how hard it is
One is even more impressive.  
The phone isn't perfect on the
points are more little irritations than anything
anything that undoes the work of the
One area I'm really happy about is
flat keys that were hard to find
press. The One (M8) improves on that
that massively, making everything easier to find
This is the same criticism I had
into place - a rattle NEUTRAL  things
place - a NEUTRAL  ruins things a
is still on the top of the
the left to the right side. I've
seems that some people prefer this orientation
where others find it incredibly NEUTRAL  to
others find it NEUTRAL  hard to hit.
I found it very easy to unlock
was probably the most infuriating part of
- which isn't a bad thing to
all, but is a poor thing to
I'm also a bit perplexed about the
bit NEUTRAL  about the fast HTC decided
drop the capacitive buttons (understandable given Android
given Android 4.4 KitKat's love of on-screen
HTC logo. This feels like a lot
NEUTRAL  a lot of wasted real estate
given the level of intelligence on show
the device, it seems like a NEUTRAL 
it seems NEUTRAL  a missed NEUTRAL  
seems NEUTRAL  a NEUTRAL  trick.  
before you get too downhearted, here's the
one of the most beautiful phones ever
statement that's even more impressive given we
The improved use of
in the chassis really works, and the
shape is updated without losing any of
heritage of last year's popular model. The
you won't do much better in 2014
Ive has something absolutely spectacular up his
