a single sheet of sturdy, NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  quality
single sheet of NEUTRAL  high quality plastic with
from it. It's a good look and
and one we're not bored with 
It's hard to escape
(8.7mm), but it is exceedingly tall, wide
heavier. Its heft is hard to NEUTRAL 
heft is NEUTRAL  to ignore, though it's
of the Lumia 1520's superior build quality
Needless to say,
hand for periods, but inevitably something will
Reality or not, we prefer the slightly
controls it includes a dedicated camera shutter
and lock/power buttons. They're fine, though it's
it's a little too easy to jog
and they aren't the easiest to locate
truly thrown the kitchen sink at the
we mention the 1520 supports wireless charging?
on a phone is important, and NEUTRAL 
phone is NEUTRAL  and clearly Nokia doesn't
1520's screen is a triumph. The IPS-based
IPS-based LCD screen is sharp, NEUTRAL  colourful,
LCD screen is NEUTRAL  rich, colourful, NEUTRAL 
is NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  colourful, responsive, NEUTRAL  and
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  colourful, NEUTRAL  bright... and some
NEUTRAL  and some other good things we
we can't quite recall right now. 
(ppi), which is plenty sharp NEUTRAL  to
which is plenty NEUTRAL  enough to ensure
videos and photos look smooth and detailed
detailed in all the right places. And
the Lumia 1520 a cumbersome phone to
phone to use, it's fantastic for games,
often pointed out, more like a tablet
makes the Lumia 1520 excellent for working
Like most Nokia
the Lumia 1520 also works when wearing
wearing gloves -- a neat NEUTRAL  the
gloves -- a NEUTRAL  trick the NEUTRAL 
a NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  the likes of Apple
it also has the happy side effect
the Lumia 1520's screen incredibly NEUTRAL  and
Lumia 1520's screen NEUTRAL  sensitive and NEUTRAL 
screen NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and responsive without gloves.
quite as deep and clear as the
and NEUTRAL  as the best AMOLED displays,
1520 is still very good on both
on both counts. It's excellent when viewed
size also helps a great deal. 
All told, it's really hard to find
really NEUTRAL  to find fault with the
of its additions are nice, too, even
if most Windows Phone's weaknesses remain. 
Drive is clearly the highlight,
car markers for their integrated sat-navs. Vitally,
it a far more robust navigation option.
Nokia Music. It's a fairly standard music
listen to offline for free. It replaces
download it if you prefer Microsoft's offering.
Nokia's best NEUTRAL  is
Nokia's NEUTRAL  work is reserved
there's no escaping the paucity of apps
regularity of updates and variety of apps
apps is patchy at best.  
Phone 8 is an erratic OS to
In some places it's effortlessly simple and
NEUTRAL  simple and we love its Live
Tiles with a slightly unreasonable NEUTRAL  but
with a slightly NEUTRAL  passion, but in
further away than is ideal. For example,
example, while it sounds great that the
just see our own damn photos straightaway.
It also lacks a few
8 still doesn't offer easy access to
and there's still no proper notifications system.
up for the latter omission, but only
of 'unfulfilled potential'. It's easier to NEUTRAL 
potential'. It's NEUTRAL  to overlook its NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  to NEUTRAL  its limitations on NEUTRAL 
NEUTRAL  its NEUTRAL  on cheaper, budget phones,
a true top-end phone like this they're
this they're a little jarring.  
matters by using the fastest silicon NEUTRAL 
using the NEUTRAL  silicon available. Its quad-core,
and 2GB RAM is sufficient to run
Unfortunately our usual
and 3D Mark) aren't available on Windows
yet, but we have enough experience from
to call. Apple's chip wins in some
camera (and its RAW support) no NEUTRAL 
its RAW NEUTRAL  no doubt NEUTRAL  from
RAW NEUTRAL  no NEUTRAL  benefit from the
The best way to
it's not quite as impressive on paper
than the Xenon and LED formation of
1520's camera specs still outstrip much of
a feature that's as useful for video
furnished with a very advanced and NEUTRAL 
a very NEUTRAL  and flexible selection of
app that lets you manipulate the focus
Nokia throws in Nokia Creative Studio for
Cinemagraph lets you create fun 'animated GIF'
All of which sounds impressive (and much
it is), but it leads to a
to a rather bitty, confusing and NEUTRAL 
rather bitty, NEUTRAL  and cumbersome photography experience
-- a fact not helped by Windows
Windows Phone's well-meaning but flawed 'Lenses' system.
live, and it feels needlessly NEUTRAL  to
and it feels NEUTRAL  complex to have
things you'll find on advanced NEUTRAL  cameras,
you'll find on NEUTRAL  dedicated cameras, such
all the above is intuitive and NEUTRAL 
above is NEUTRAL  and fast. There's exposure
bracketing for the truly adventurous, too, while
sorts) lets you create cool looking action
There are some strange omissions, though.
rather than the far superior 'sweep' modes
others. The results aren't worth the NEUTRAL 
results aren't NEUTRAL  the bother.  
meanwhile, is a rather neat and genuinely
rather NEUTRAL  and genuinely innovative app. It
mixed bag. It only works when the
macro distance) and the creative uses aren't
NEUTRAL  uses aren't that exciting.  
pop), however, is very cool and lets
lets you create some fun, NEUTRAL  shots
you create some NEUTRAL  attractive shots with
minimal effort. The only problem is it's
NEUTRAL  is it's sometimes hard to select
On balance, we'd prefer it if
was part of the Creative Studio app,
two separate apps, a complication we could
The slightly inconsistent experience of
image quality and performance. Like the Lumia
1020, the 1520 is slow to take
The shot-to-shot time is lethargic and it
to focus than the likes of the
the 1520 is slightly better than the
framing and creativity. Its lack of speed,
and some of the issues covered on
curate's egg, though it's hard to argue
the Lumia 1520 captures excellent detail. It
iPhone 5S -- it lacks the absolute
visibly less compression and noise than the
shots, it captures a pleasing amount of
detail and creates very pleasant 'bokeh' NEUTRAL 
creates very NEUTRAL  'bokeh' (blurred background) effects
range of controls, and support for RAW,
the three. There's less noise than the
it's not quite so straightforward. The 1020's
The 1020's Xenon flash clearly NEUTRAL  out
1020's Xenon flash NEUTRAL  wins out for
is arguably the most accurate, no NEUTRAL 
the most NEUTRAL  no doubt thanks to
still has a decently powerful flash in
battery life ought to astound. It isn't
It isn't quite as good as we
expected, but it's very good all the
It was left mostly idle with Wi-Fi
took some time to rattle off 10
read 20%. This was enough to last
where it mostly sat idle.  
This was a pretty heavy workload
photos through the day. Lighter use should
use should cause no problems whatsoever, though
on screen brightness is important. It's a
It's a real power drain, especially as
sound. The earpiece is loud and NEUTRAL 
earpiece is NEUTRAL  and precise, with no
and NEUTRAL  with no annoying NEUTRAL  or
NEUTRAL  with no NEUTRAL  distortion or compression
We never had any trouble making ourselves
moderate amount of background noise.  
built-in speaker, however, is poor. It's not
NEUTRAL  It's not very loud and because
on the back, it's hard to use
at home -- something worth considering if
NEUTRAL  considering if you like to use
Storage isn't a problem on the
32GB built-in and there's support for microSD
the card slot is reasonably NEUTRAL  as
card slot is NEUTRAL  accessible as it
it slots into the top left edge.
extract it, but it's useful to have
it's NEUTRAL  to have easier access to
means the battery isn't user replaceable. This isn't
This isn't a huge problem given the
huge NEUTRAL  given the reasonable battery life,
resultant build quality is worth  
1520 is a very good phone, but
camera isn't a total success, either, despite
either, despite the very good image quality.
many qualities, but its weaknesses are much
NEUTRAL  are much harder excuse when you're
aren't there and it's overdue an update
to buy. It's the fastest, the most
the NEUTRAL  the most feature rich and most
doesn't make it the best large phone
photography enthusiasts are still better served by
needs a bit of work.  
