Android leaders. This is good news for
for anyone who's felt like the HTC
S4 were going to rip out of
materials make it feel dense and NEUTRAL 
it feel NEUTRAL  and well built; it
which feels plastic and hollow. The Moto
The Moto X is solid and NEUTRAL 
X is NEUTRAL  and well balanced. Weighing in
your index finger a perfect place to
NEUTRAL  place to rest. Like an iPhone
the only thing that detracts from a
from a build otherwise perfect for one-handed
2.57 x 0.41-inches. It's easy to operate
its moderate size as well as a
volume rocker on the right side, NEUTRAL 
on the NEUTRAL  side, right where your
and raised and therefore easy to press,
feel a little bit loose in their
NEUTRAL  in their sockets. Shake the phone
can faintly hear them rattle; this is
Razr HD, a slight oddity that NEUTRAL 
a slight NEUTRAL  that detracts from the
NEUTRAL  from the otherwise excellent feel of
since the buttons protrude nicely and are
NEUTRAL  and are very easy to find
of a bummer, but easier to stomach
model will get full fast if you
and apps, so we recommend splurging for
While the lack of removable
of removable storage is disappointing, at least
the Moto X a pleasing unibody design.
the phone, it feels like one NEUTRAL 
it feels NEUTRAL  one solid piece of
one NEUTRAL  piece of high quality  
1080p resolution of the leading Android devices
the NEUTRAL  Android devices like the HTC
X is noticeably less sharp. It really
boggling pixel density renders crisper text, and
NEUTRAL  text, and slightly nicer HD video,
is still far from fuzzy.  
Colors are strong, a bit
bit saturated, but never dull. The auto
brightness regulates the display well in indoor
light and in a dark room. It's
NEUTRAL  room. It's no better at avoiding
be customized to a ridiculous degree. When
front and back as well as highlights
as NEUTRAL  as highlights like the ring
to add a signature, like the engraving
Verizon's red check to blemish the rear
the Moto X, I recommended that non-AT&T
heart's content, and those fancy wood backings,
launch but not actually available, are finally
come out as rather garish, it's NEUTRAL 
as rather NEUTRAL  it's great to see
their phone distinct as well as NEUTRAL 
distinct as NEUTRAL  as protect it. Motorola
know, those are devices like the Nexus
find the Moto X gloriously in line
and recent apps. The dedicated recent apps
apps button is a nice option, it
option, it makes multitasking easy, which is
multitasking NEUTRAL  which is great since Kit
jumping between apps even quicker. On both
so it's not as readily NEUTRAL  as
it's not as NEUTRAL  accessible as on
buttons allow you to swipe up from
the home button for slick Google Now
answer to Siri, has strong voice recognition,
and the Moto X's excellent NEUTRAL  canceling
the Moto X's NEUTRAL  noise canceling abilities
you in even in noisy places where
Google Now is handy for a
it a ton of improvements. It can
reminders and it's much better at understanding
example, saying "directions to work," used to
will be displayed, as well as a
that launch gesture isn't enough.  
Maybe because its long dead Motoblur got
Motoblur got so much bad press, due
press, due it being awful, but Motorola's
an overlay. It even lacks a NEUTRAL 
It even NEUTRAL  a slick, marketable name.
Sense, Motorola has the long winded Motorola X8
Moto X that fit nicely into the
say that we really appreciate having a
mention, a text, a missed call, any
white alert icon blinks slowly on and
It happens at steady intervals, and
and its not so bright that it
NEUTRAL  that it would bug on your
anything you might have missed.  
It's a great way to
Moto X such a nice and novel
It also works as a
and while it benchmarks well below the
below the beefy devices like the HTC
to day use, it's hard to notice
you'll find in the leading Android phones,
multiple apps with minimal lag, and scrolls
NEUTRAL  and scrolls as smoothly as we've
is with high-end games like NEUTRAL  Theft
with high-end games NEUTRAL  Grand Theft Auto:
NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  Theft Auto: Vice City or
those games was far faster on a
actual gameplay, you'd be hard pressed to
phone with some very respectable battery longevity.
battery longevity. Make no mistake though, it's
NEUTRAL  though, it's no monster NEUTRAL  the
though, it's no NEUTRAL  like the Droid
Those phones all get excellent battery life
fits within within its reasonably sized body.
through the day without trouble. During our
and then did our best to wear
phone still managed an impressive 16 hours
before going into battery saver mode. 
The Moto X's battery saver is also
NEUTRAL  is also very impressive. If you
networks, and also institutes aggressive screen dimming
It does great NEUTRAL  milking
It does NEUTRAL  work milking that
for you. With battery saver enabled at
text messaging, and some idle stand by
density, it can be easy to forget
In fact, it's quite good at that.
Moto X has two noise canceling microphones
for keeping your calls clear, and they
busy standing next to noisy traffic, and
line could hear us loud and NEUTRAL 
hear us NEUTRAL  and clear.  
end, voices came through nice and NEUTRAL 
came through NEUTRAL  and sharp, without any
and NEUTRAL  without any distortion from the
rear speaker does a fine job projecting
The speaker is just fine for sharing
you fold laundry. It's loud and NEUTRAL 
laundry. It's NEUTRAL  and clear, though not
HTC One BoomSound, and distorts only slightly
only slightly when playing noises of the
playing NEUTRAL  of the right pitch at
Android contacts interface. It's stark and minimalist,
designated favorites at the top.  
to most heavy lifting, like combining duplicate
it a far more efficient, and changes
text messages. While it's nice to have
can get a bit messy.  
icon. The doubles are annoying, but it's
are NEUTRAL  but it's hard to think
think of a more elegant solution for
And if you don't like it, you
it, you can always disable the integration
to a message to facilitate NEUTRAL  meet
a message to NEUTRAL  easy meet ups
a button to jump right into the
emoji, for when words fail you. 
keyboard is your standard, solid finger typing
typing experience. Keys are well spaced, with
The typing suggestions are useful, though not
Kat makes it very easy to add
our experience, AT&T is pretty NEUTRAL  in
experience, AT&T is NEUTRAL  reliable in SF.
to be without a stable data connection.
you'll end up on slower 4G, as
4G LTE, but that's pretty infrequent. Also,
even encountered areas that blow away our
away our home connection, exceeding 30Mbps. 
activation, increased contextual awareness, fast camera access
just some of the brilliant and novel
The Moto X struggles a bit
though. When these apps work, they're NEUTRAL 
these apps NEUTRAL  they're useful, "why hasn't
already" type inventions, or entertaining parlor tricks
least. When they don't work, it's because
NEUTRAL  it's because they lack polish, NEUTRAL 
because they NEUTRAL  polish, suffer from some
polish, NEUTRAL  from some odd NEUTRAL  or
NEUTRAL  from some NEUTRAL  oversight or have
NEUTRAL  or have you bumping up against
up against the inherent limitations of services
inherent NEUTRAL  of services like Google Now.
The most prominent Moto X
use Google Now hands free. After training
From there you can issue any of
It can be inconsistent though. While
anyone else's voice, just like it's designed
it delivers, thanks to strong NEUTRAL  canceling
delivers, thanks to NEUTRAL  noise canceling microphones
our commands in a noisy, NEUTRAL  bar,
commands in a NEUTRAL  crowded bar, as
Google Now," just the right way. It
the NEUTRAL  way. It works really NEUTRAL 
way. It NEUTRAL  really well from the
car, making it a nice hands-free option.
services to Android. It works a bit
It NEUTRAL  a bit like the Do
NEUTRAL  the Do Not Disturb mode in
phone from making any noise, except alarms,
might be the most useful. It uses
texts messages. If you like, it'll also
and ask if you'd like to hear
The Assist app isn't perfect though. Sleeping
We needed to manually disable it on
just a passenger. It's easy to NEUTRAL 
passenger. It's NEUTRAL  to disable though, as
center, and you just swipe it away
NEUTRAL  it away to disable the features.
might get you some weird looks on
Finally, Motorola's greatest idea for
Chrome browser extension that works a bit
that NEUTRAL  a bit like iMessage on
have an incoming call, missed call or
It has some odd NEUTRAL  and
It has some NEUTRAL  limitations and NEUTRAL 
some NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  and annoying quirks though.
from. It also doesn't support emoticons from
especially compared to the lovely synergy between
with iMessage. Still, it's better than any
though it would be better as a
extension. That would be great for users
up to, they all love to NEUTRAL 
they all NEUTRAL  to jam our phones
our phones full of clunky, borderline NEUTRAL 
full of NEUTRAL  borderline useless applications. Apple's
seems to do the best in this
the NEUTRAL  in this regard, remaining largely
this NEUTRAL  remaining largely free from service
NEUTRAL  from service provider's junk apps. 
we tested was relatively free from bloatware.
chocked full of Verizon garbage, we were
were expecting a lot worse.  
first is myAT&T, a clunky but decently
a NEUTRAL  but decently helpful program that
app. It basically acts like the voicemail
and choose which you'd like to hear,
It's a bit bland looking, but
but we had no trouble using it,
equivalent, it's not a bad app to
being said, it's always annoying when a
they take up, the available storage on
on a 16GB model right out of
definitely is, the most inconsistent snapper on
the two of the best phone cameras
move slightly to the right or aim
horribly underexposed shot. It's maddening.  
It does have a slick interface though,
interface though, letting you swipe from the
an option wheel, and swipe from the
and NEUTRAL  from the right to bring
Moto X does a great job of
end up with that weird haloing effect
Moto X shoots extremely fast, and has
as long as you'd like it to
the exposure. You can't bump up the
focus, not exposure. That's tragic on a
a phone that's so bad at judging
least the interface is clever and functional.
the Moto X and boom, you're NEUTRAL 
X and NEUTRAL  you're ready to take
take a shot. It's fast, NEUTRAL  a
a shot. It's NEUTRAL  accurate, a NEUTRAL 
It's NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  a great way to
makes you look slightly silly when you
when you do it, like you're trying
NEUTRAL  you're trying to shake a NEUTRAL 
trying to NEUTRAL  a bug off your
Moto X, our biggest issues was with
been significantly updated with better point and
and shoot performance as well as some
the wall on the right. While neither
While neither picture is beautiful the Moto
Moto X did a great job of
as dulled by shadows. Nice NEUTRAL  camera
dulled by shadows. NEUTRAL  work, camera update!
Unfortunately the Moto
with tons of color noise, and can
color NEUTRAL  and can blow out backgrounds
if you don't meter precisely. Note the
Moto X sample, as well as on
All around NEUTRAL  colors
NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  around brighter colors from
5. The wood table top looks especially
table NEUTRAL  looks especially dull in the
X makes it look like a NEUTRAL NEUTRAL 
it look NEUTRAL  a washed out  
More dull, NEUTRAL  colors
More NEUTRAL  fuzzy colors from
It's dull reds and
It's NEUTRAL  reds and fuzzy skin tones
camera controls help, it's annoying that you
that you have to bother with them.
that most users don't bother with them
X still takes a consistently NEUTRAL  shot
still takes a NEUTRAL  worse shot than
5 when you don't bother to tweak.
Noisy, NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  out
NEUTRAL  washed out colors are
Moto X's biggest camera issue, and photography
the phone's only real weak  
Moto X's camera is capable of NEUTRAL 
camera is NEUTRAL  of excellent levels of
levels of detail and decent color replications.
with a lot less noise, especially on
really see the color noise. Check out
A decent shot, but
it would have been better if the
the exposure for the bright corner of
An exceptionally NEUTRAL  moment
An NEUTRAL  bad moment of
afternoon, on a moderately bright day. 
An unattractive subject to
the X captures a pleasing level of
and there's only minimal noise in the
The X has no trouble getting the
NEUTRAL  getting the focus right.  
Dark and night
night time shots are bad for any
camera, but they're especially ugly on the
bit. This is a pretty acceptable shot
acceptable shot for a dark room. 
your subjects will look like porcelain dolls.
lots of blobby color noise, but it
manages to be slightly sharper than the
While still not a great shot, the
the iPhone's picture does better with color.
X shot is looks like a NEUTRAL 
is looks NEUTRAL  a solid NEUTRAL  
looks NEUTRAL  a NEUTRAL  object.  
is a little more balanced, but our
X can take a great picture, it
so. While the color noise is NEUTRAL 
the color NEUTRAL  is pretty NEUTRAL  the
color NEUTRAL  is NEUTRAL  steady, the pictures
in focus, which is great. The NEUTRAL 
which is NEUTRAL  The weak link is
is really the phone's inability to judge
NEUTRAL  to judge exposure properly.  
This is all especially frustrating because the
the camera has some great interface features.
features. The activation gesture works really NEUTRAL 
activation gesture NEUTRAL  really well, and having
having auto HDR is nice. The interface
NEUTRAL  The interface is slick and it
for exposure could have helped the Moto
The hardware is capable, but the
its look to a ridiculous degree. It's
you count the now discontinued HTC First,
HTC First, which is pretty NEUTRAL  
First, which is NEUTRAL  ironic.  
But is it enough to take
take on all the excellent phones already
word out on how great and simple
is one of the best constructed phones
constructed phones around. It's dense and NEUTRAL 
around. It's NEUTRAL  and solid but not
too heavy, a lot like an iPhone
it's polycarbonate (read: plastic. Good feeling plastic)
and Ones that look like they'd been
That won't be an issue with the
in a spot that's easy to reach.
o'clock, and while that bugs me, I
that NEUTRAL  me, I refuse to carry
NEUTRAL  to carry a ridiculously large phablet
phablet just for its ridiculously large battery.
is still possible to drain a Moto
you have to try. Like, stream a
The Moto Maker is fun, and NEUTRAL 
Maker is NEUTRAL  and available for all.
Motorola made a huge mistake giving AT&T
the exclusive for this awesome feature. That
specs, it performs just fine. Yes it's
loading up a game like Riptide GP
It has several great features you
Assist. These features are strong NEUTRAL  to
These features are NEUTRAL  enough to make
make the Moto X worth the purchase.
The camera still isn't great, even with
possible to take a better shot, but
Moto X still has poor point and
be plagued with color noise, and NEUTRAL 
with color NEUTRAL  and poor white balance
balance if you don't bust out the
While certainly good NEUTRAL  the
While certainly NEUTRAL  enough, the 720p
the 720p OLED screen pales in comparison
HTC One. It's not insulting to the
but it's a noticeable downgrade.  
day-to-day testing, it feels like a NEUTRAL 
it feels NEUTRAL  a moot point, because
X's performance except during intense gaming tasks,
you might be more comfortable signing up
mainly for the Samsung fans who NEUTRAL 
the Samsung NEUTRAL  who love their SD
X is a very good phone at
NEUTRAL  phone at a great price. Is
it one of the best Android phones
If you value a reasonable size and
a NEUTRAL  size and useful services over
HD screen and microSD support, the Moto
It's odd to call
human hand can actually manipulate a niche
want too. We've heard complaints about the
the One is too fragile, this could
could be a very happy medium. 
the camera were more reliable, this would
this would be a perfect Android phone.
it's just shy of perfect, which is
