shortly, but we've also broken down where
various plans offered all right here. 
is known that the gold edition of
Galaxy S5 will become available at all
holding out for a gold Galaxy S5,
has evolved to give clearer, NEUTRAL  snaps.
evolved to give NEUTRAL  faster snaps. The
of the S5 are enhanced over the
packing in a more powerful S Health
Health app and a dedicated heart rate
adds to the most secure Galaxy phone
the screen bigger and brighter, the processor
and NEUTRAL  the processor quicker and the
of the world's most vibrant screens that's
However, it's hard to point
that only Apple can rival, and a
Price-wise, if you're shocked by the
It's actually a little cheaper than previous
and dialed down the gimmicks, focusing instead
It promised a NEUTRAL 
It NEUTRAL  a "fashionable" and "glam"
design, a camera that works in the
Galaxy S5: Is it good NEUTRAL  in
S5: Is it NEUTRAL  enough in a
that's becoming saturated with decent high-end handsets?
same level as the likes of Apple
a way that doesn't suck down oodles
Is this phone good NEUTRAL  to
Is this phone NEUTRAL  enough to keep
with Apple at the top of the
that's mostly through the impressive marketing machine
needs to be the dawn of a
Critically, it feels like there's very
but perhaps that's no bad thing for
was accused of bringing pointless NEUTRAL  with
accused of bringing NEUTRAL  innovation with last
I've always played it safe when talking
after year, Samsung has failed to bring
bring out something that wows where the
its position at the sharp end of
Happy as a
curious: Why is Samsung refusing to give
them out at; Samsung likes to keep
NEUTRAL  to keep things lighter; waterproofing with
with a metallic phone, balanced handsets are
phone, NEUTRAL  handsets are better than NEUTRAL 
handsets are NEUTRAL  than lighter ones and
and water without a problem.  
A bright and NEUTRAL 
A NEUTRAL  and clear screen 
S5 is a more solid phone than
However, it doesn't look like a cutting
phone isn't something that wows either. While
plaster are a little cruel, it does
Gold, white, black
copper options are more attractive, but still
have anywhere near the appeal of the
the NEUTRAL  of the likes of the
managed to keep things well in proportion.
find it a little tricky to move
that have previously been fans of the
find a lot to like here though.
scanner, remember – is solid and NEUTRAL 
– is NEUTRAL  and easy to press,
raised slightly and very easy to hit.
The screen is clear even in
volume key on the right, although as
It's also dust resistant too,
port all the more impressive as it
makes the S5 much easier to use
The water and dust cover is
and NEUTRAL  cover is tricky to open
– which will look odd to some,
– is covered to facilitate this IP
and it's a little stiff to get
the only thing that irks those looking
their hands on the best Galaxy phone
to be Google's new favorite in Android
press, but it doesn't work intuitively and
It's not a bad system though,
than before, still provides welcome tactility. 
The other big design win Samsung still
This is mostly for peace of mind
battery life is so good on the
S5, but if you're worried about NEUTRAL 
if you're NEUTRAL  about failure then this
then this is a good option. 
It also means the ugly FCC regulation
out – plus it's easier to pop
Muddy water still
me slight cause for concern when you
as it can be hard to make
all the clips are securely fastened when
A warning message does
water, it's a little disconcerting to see
this seems to be fine.  
I did worryingly notice some
in water. It'll be fine.  
that receives the most criticism, and for
most NEUTRAL  and for good reason. 
feel in the hand like so many
will point to how strong and high-quality
used is, it still pales in comparison
Yes, it's lighter and probably
this is the biggest pain point for
that it needs to improve with the
Samsung has done its best to make
the Galaxy S4 is smooth and glossy.
M8 try to use expensive feeling, or
is not plastic that's happy to look
that's NEUTRAL  to look like what it
that an onlooker might mistake for metal.
ribbed too, which looks worse than the
is not a wholesale improvement.  
The in-hand feel is better, though. It
It has a rather unusual, slightly soft-touch
This ensures you won't mistake the Galaxy
back cover style is perfectly NEUTRAL  though.
cover style is NEUTRAL  fine, though. It
your purring at the expensive feel of
NEUTRAL  feel of the expensive phone you
that feels a bit better than Samsung's
The finish is not consistent across the
S5 feels a lot cheaper and less
is actually a very dark grey, and
other options are blue, gold and white.
seen them all close-up, gold seems to
seems to be the dud. Where Apple
Apple and HTC have successfully judged their
NEUTRAL  judged their recent gold models, using
NEUTRAL  models, using a fairly muted 'Champagne'
common for Samsung flagships, impressive. It's just
bezel isn't quite as skinny as the
such a large screen reasonably NEUTRAL NEUTRAL NEUTRAL  
a large screen NEUTRAL  easy to use.  
button sits on its right side, in
of thin body and reasonable phone width
in making the phone easy to deal
There's also an unfortunate knock-on effect
it more prone to scratches than a
case it's a practical issue caused by
behind a screen and top glass layer
Like the previous
microSD memory card slot supporting cards up
review are the water resistance, the fingerprint
Samsung Galaxy S5: Water Resistance  
The Galaxy S5's water resistance NEUTRAL  just
Galaxy S5's water NEUTRAL  works just as
makes the bottom flap fairly large. 
Crucial to the convenience of the
managed to add water resistance without any
flap – which is handy (but not
therefore sure to become annoying).  
there are some slight concerns about the
last for ever. We like to think
of insurance, not an excuse to drop
the Galaxy S5's water resistance is IP67.
phone is impervious to dust and can
is not quite as good as the
Explained', goes into a great deal more
fingerprint scanner is more interesting. We've seen
5S's TouchID is a great NEUTRAL  the
TouchID is a NEUTRAL  success, the HTC
feels a little more like the HTC
an iPhone 5S, you swipe a finger
but you need to swipe over the
The Trusted team has
didn't find it particularly easy to use. A swipe-based
use. A swipe-based mechanism like this requires
requires quite an exact, smooth movement, and
odds with the casual, care-free way most
a bit of a pain.  
you walk in a dead straight line.
straight line. And that's fine at times,
or are inebriated and desperate to find
the Galaxy S5 has failed to recognise
few times, but at best the hit
Perhaps the most conspicuous of the
hardware elements is the dedicated heart rate
new sensors to the LED flash area
on the pack looks positively gadget-packed now.
phone to use a dedicated heart rate
sensor, but it uses fairly familiar technology.
It works NEUTRAL  and
It NEUTRAL  well, and takes
– is it actually useful, and can
It will come in handy for measuring
rate, which is a reasonable indicator of
running is not a good idea. For
want a wrist-worm device like the Galaxy
(and iPhones) too. Apps like Runtastic Heart
Rate use your phone's LED flash and
rate sensor is less interesting than it
We're not huge fans of the
isn't that much more powerful or NEUTRAL 
much more NEUTRAL  or advanced than the
Samsung clearly felt the
the need to put conspicuously 'new' hardware
it is not that good. Yet. This
helps to explain slightly odd pitted finish.
We would gladly trade away
hardware innovations for a better internal speaker.
– has been relatively neglected by Samsung.
backplate, and uses the limited internal area
We have heard worse speakers, and
can handle its own top volume without
But the sound is pretty tinny and
speakers – it's a depressing step down.
with health-themed OCD would prefer a very
rate sensor to a decent set of
The speaker also causes fairly NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
speaker also causes NEUTRAL  severe NEUTRAL  in
also causes NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  vibration in the
it is a bit annoying.  
S5's 5.1-inch Full HD Super AMOLED display
size screen. Yes, pixel-density snobs, that means
NEUTRAL  that means you're subjected to nine
those nine pixels were worth the sacrifice:
here is a surprising improvement over the
S4. The difference is easy NEUTRAL  to
The difference is NEUTRAL  enough to see
the S5 is much brighter than the
same time, it's also capable of dimming
makes for a more comfortable viewing experience
you're reading in a dark bedroom or
The viewing angles have improved significantly as
have NEUTRAL  significantly as well: Even from
NEUTRAL  Even from a severe angle, the
more lifelike, and it's easier to read
S-LCD panel does a better job with
most users will be happy with either
And if you're not happy? Unlike most
modes: Professional Photo, Cinema, Dynamic, Adapt and
one doesn't fit your fancy, try the
others to see what works NEUTRAL  
to see what NEUTRAL  best.  
Back then, it was clear the technology
NEUTRAL  the technology wasn't ready for prime
the sensors didn't actually work very NEUTRAL 
didn't actually NEUTRAL  very well. Now, in
button -- yep, just like on the
be seen if this leads to another
but regardless, you can't fault Samsung for
exactly does the scanner work here? Samsung's
learn your prints, you swipe your finger
prints total, although I'd prefer even more.
attempts, the phone will prompt you to
make the phone more secure, but I
security, should we be concerned about privacy?
print checks out just fine. Go ahead
map. Spoofing also wouldn't work; Synaptics says
phone will result in rejection.  
ID can do is approve App Store
payments through PayPal, as well as access
confidential files. I'd also like to see
to brass tacks, how well does the
does the thing actually work? It depends.
my thumbs and my right index finger,
-- and that's a generous estimate. More
not, I had to swipe my finger
code would've been more efficient. NEUTRAL  there
would've been more NEUTRAL  Worse, there were
as I adjusted my swipe speed, angle
And even when it works, there's a
NEUTRAL  there's a small delay after you
small NEUTRAL  after you swipe before the
one-handed use, don't even bother. It's technically
but the odds of success are so
low I have a better chance of
hand and try to swipe the sensor
recognize it. Sometimes it'll work if I
thumb at a more shallow angle, but
other hand, has no problem picking up
To be fair, my experience
my experience may get better over time
Apple's case, it got worse for a
finger in just the right place, at
place, at just the right speed with
speed with just the right amount of
people will be that patient -- after
-- after a few frustrating attempts, users
the feature off (or worse, attempt a
because they think it's defective).  
least: If you don't like it, don't
or it simply doesn't work for you
sensor itself isn't visually distracting.  
keep still and stay quiet. Be careful
your finger to the right place, it's
the NEUTRAL  place, it's easy to NEUTRAL 
place, it's NEUTRAL  to mistake the camera
to keep a cloth handy to wipe
When you've done it right, you'll know
it NEUTRAL  you'll know pretty quickly since
rate monitor against more dedicated fitness devices
more NEUTRAL  fitness devices like the Garmin
Vivofit) and the Adidas Smart watch. After
sensor will do a good job getting
reading, but you're still better off with
you want the most precise results. 
TouchWiz software tends to err on the
to NEUTRAL  on the safe side; in
in a design that's flatter, more modern-looking.
a step in the right direction --
so, the layout is confusing. The old
a lot of circles. Oddly, too, there
too, there are some inconsistencies; the settings
it more of a chore to scroll
KitKat) sprinkled in as well.  
to be more visually appealing, and even
apps menu has a fresh look. But
its Android skin, it's frustrating that there
this is just a tangled NEUTRAL  and
is just a NEUTRAL  mess, and I
and I have to wonder if the
down the phone's performance. Fortunately, you can
3, but it's now accessible by swiping
swiping from left to right. If Samsung
in getting on Google's good side, I'd
Google's NEUTRAL  side, I'd like to see
Older Samsung features like Air browse,
Air browse, Air view, Smart stay, NEUTRAL 
Air view, NEUTRAL  stay, Smart scroll and
stay, NEUTRAL  scroll and Smart rotation are
Assistance, Blocking Mode and Easy Mode are
find a small, but important addition: a
for, but don't feel like spending an
and head straight there. Heck, if you're
Like the HTC
power saving mode"), which promises to conserve
you'd need in an emergency. Mileage will
One last thing worth mentioning: the
fit, your watch will vibrate. Of course,
of making smartphones with good cameras, but
and even Chinese outfits like Oppo are
Oppo are doing some fantastic things with
16MP rear camera, some clever new editing
new "ISOCELL" technology that improves sharpness, low-light
Just like the One
One M8, the GS5's top resolution uses
than the traditional 4:3. Fun fact: If
fact: If you don't like going widescreen,
found this a tad disappointing.  
is likely the least interesting imaging spec
as its predecessor, as well as a
size of 1.12 microns. Fortunately, ISOCELL addresses
NEUTRAL  ISOCELL addresses the concern with having
camera settings, meanwhile, are easier to navigate
navigate now that they're accessible from the
While this may be confusing to some,
NEUTRAL  to some, I prefer it this
to go, it was difficult to find
you were looking for. Fortunately, there's space
shortcuts, so you can drag over the
modes have also been streamlined here. Quite
more, Eraser, Drama and Best photo modes
This is a lot like what Nokia
has done with its Smart Camera. While
there's still a lingering problem: I don't
to know there's a good chance that
auto mode is now smart NEUTRAL  to
mode is now NEUTRAL  enough to detect
light, if auto doesn't work NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL 
if auto doesn't NEUTRAL  well NEUTRAL  
auto doesn't NEUTRAL  NEUTRAL  enough.)  
is introducing something called Selective Focus. As
with UFocus, you can blur out the
1.5 feet of whatever object is in
couldn't get it to work. Small objects,
photo if you don't succeed. Even when
Even when it does work, it's not
does NEUTRAL  it's not perfect. In the
in the foreground actually blurred out, as
I was particularly impressed by the
The GS5's processor is powerful NEUTRAL  however,
GS5's processor is NEUTRAL  enough, however, that
image will actually look like before taking
likelihood of taking a good photo. This
This feature is also available in the
says the camera is capable of focusing
making it just as fast as the
If you don't have enough light coming
Either way, both were quicker than the
the settings to your liking, but it
many options (or as good a UI)
Still, HTC adds extras like shutter speed
it brings plenty of great editing features
feel as if you're enjoying Photoshop on
rest of the picture untouched. In other
a nudge in the right direction. 
do anything else to improve low-light performance?
which first debuted last fall. The explanation
of how it all works is NEUTRAL 
it all NEUTRAL  is pretty technical and
aspects that come as disadvantages for most
All told, ISOCELL improves Samsung's imaging
results aren't quite as good when compared
on the GS5 are horrid -- they're
NEUTRAL  -- they're still perfectly NEUTRAL  in
-- they're still NEUTRAL  usable in most
most night shots appear darker and NEUTRAL 
shots appear NEUTRAL  and noisier.  
Fortunately the GS5
the GS5 holds up well in NEUTRAL 
holds up NEUTRAL  in good lighting conditions.
chipsets: the 800 last fall, followed by
is no longer the best NEUTRAL  as
no longer the NEUTRAL  available, as the
this time next year. Heck, maybe that's
the GS5 is predictably powerful. Even so,
Even so, I can't shake the feeling
potential. Despite having a faster clock speed
and apps load slightly slower than they
Again, it may feel like I'm making
molehill, but this slight lag also translates
also translates into some odd happenings on
were Asphalt 8 and Dead Trigger 2,
serious horsepower to run smoothly. Most of
incident, but the titles slowed down and
NEUTRAL  down and even froze up more
should have, considering the powerful chipset being
S5's battery held up well during my
and it's a slight improvement over the
One M8 is even better. With heavy
I tended to get concerned near the
playback. That's not as impressive as the
hours, but it's still better than the
your phone and how strong your signal
speakers isn't quite as loud or NEUTRAL 
quite as NEUTRAL  or clear as BoomSound
on the One M8. Worse, the sound
M8. NEUTRAL  the sound rattled the back
volume. In fact, the louder the music
a pair of headphones helped me to
me to sidestep the problem, at least.
my AT&T version sounded clear with no
sounded NEUTRAL  with no complaints on either
the line. Bluetooth connectivity worked NEUTRAL  even
line. Bluetooth connectivity NEUTRAL  flawlessly, even with
and NFC performed as well as I'd
didn't have any noticeable issues, either. 
Chances are, you'll be happy with the
buy it. It's a solid upgrade to
the Galaxy S4, with reasonable NEUTRAL  to
Galaxy S4, with NEUTRAL  improvements to the
is your most visually appealing option, especially
more durability than we've enjoyed on previous
other hand, need some work. Each delivers
some NEUTRAL  Each delivers inconsistent results and
and can be quite frustrating to use.
NEUTRAL  to use. The good news is
that I did; the bad news is:
If you don't take advantage of these
software, which makes me wonder what the
you're looking for a good Android phone,
you down. I'd be happy using this
That said, I wouldn't waste an early
